---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Black and White - Quiz 3"
date:   2013-09-03
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Black and White prepared by Larry Clemmons in association with Beau
Rugg and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Black-and-White-Quiz-3.pdf).

## Rules
1. It’s the first game of the season and as the crew is performing their pregame
   duties. They notice that some of the players are wearing the “Guardian” caps
over their helmets. In discussion with the HC’s they are informed that these
“caps” help prevent concussions. Are these “caps” legal or illegal?

2. Actual game. During the first half, it has rained constantly. As the
   officials come out for the second half they notice a player putting a can of
non-stick cooking spray in his pants. The crew takes the can from the player and
asks the HC about it. The HC said they sprayed it on their cleats to keep the
mud from caking. Upon further investigation, they were also spraying their
uniform to help prevent opponents who are wearing “tacky” gloves from grabbing
their jersey. Legal or illegal?

3. A, 2/7 at A’s 45 YL. A14 throws a legal FP that is intercepted by B29 at the
   B15 YL. B29 returns the ball to A’s 16 YL where he fumbles the ball. The ball
is recovered by A65 at A’s 15 YL. Down, distance, clock status?

4. A has just scored a TD and is going for two points on the Try at B’s 3 YL. QB
   A17 goes back for a pass and is tackled at the 12 YL by a pulled face mask
foul. What is the penalty enforcement?

5. A, 1/10 at A’s 20 YL. A85 runs a pass route toward B39 who is standing on A’s
   30 YL. Before the pass is thrown, A85 approaches B39 and (a) B39 pushes A85
with both hands and knocks him down, or (b) A85 cuts a ninety degree angle
immediately in front of B39. B39 then shoves A85 from the side as A85 is moving
away. A forward pass is then thrown across the LOS which falls incomplete.

6. A, 2/10 at A’s 30 YL. As A7 drops back to pass, A82 blocks B43 in the middle
   of the field at A’s 45 YL, allowing A84 to break into the open. However, A7
throws to A85 near the SL.

7. A, 2/7 from A’s 35 YL. QB A12 drops back to pass at A’s 27 YL. While looking
   for a potential receiver, A65 is blocking B76. (a) B76’s helmet comes off
without a foul. B76 quickly picks up his helmet and puts it back on and
continues to participate, but doesn’t make the tackle. (b) B76’s helmet comes
off without a foul. B76 quickly picks up his helmet and puts it back on and
continues to participate and sacks QB A12 at A’s 25 YL. (c) B76’s helmet comes
off without a foul. B76 quickly picks up his helmet and puts it back on. A65
blocks B76 after he has his helmet back on. (d) A65’s helmet comes off without a
foul. A65 blocks B76 at A’s 23 YL. In (a), (b), (c) and (d), QB A12 is sacked at
A’s 25 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. The crew of officials notice that B36 is approaching “fouling “ status and
   want to send him out for the HC to address. However, A is in a “hurry up”
offense and the crew doesn’t want to put the defense at a disadvantage by making
a substitution. How should the crew handle this situation?

9. On a close SL play and the runner driven back OOB, the LM is trailing the
   play, and because of the number of players, isn’t sure where FP was stopped.
How should the LM handle this type of play?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. How are ejections handled concerning Ohio players playing in games outside
    the state of Ohio? How are ejections handled concerning players from outside
of Ohio playing games in Ohio?
