---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 10"
date:   2013-10-25
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-Quiz-10.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 1/10 @ A's 35 YL. 3 seconds remain in 2Q. A1’s pass is intercepted by B2 &
   the GC expires. B2 is tackled at A’s 3 YL. Then A3 is flagged for a personal
foul (PF). The R signals DB then PF and signals that the penalty will be
enforced on the ensuing KO. B’s HC tells the R his team should get an untimed
down since he is accepting the penalty. The R agrees and the U places the ball
half the distance to the GL. A then runs a play and scores a TD on the untimed
down.

2. K, 4/12 @ K’s 25 YL. K1 receives a high snap and starts to run to the right
   side of the field. He approaches the LOS and raises his leg to punt the ball.
When K1 kicks the ball it’s apparent to the LJ his plant foot was in the NZ.
However, his kicking foot was beyond the NZ when he kicked the ball.

3. K, 4/9 @ R’s 45 YL. K1 punts the ball high and short. R1 muffs the ball @ R’s
   38 YL. K2 picks up the ball and runs it to R’s 33 YL where he is tackled. The
LM states the ball became dead where K2 picked up the ball. The LJ says the ball
was picked up behind the original LOS so K can advance. Who is right?

4. A, 2/8 @ B’s 12 YL. B1 intercepts A1’s pass in B’s EZ. B1 runs to the left of
   the EZ. After the COP and while the ball is still in B’s EZ B2 is flagged for
holding (HLD) A3 in B’s EZ. B1 then returns the ball to B’s 10 YL where he is
tackled. The crew gets together and talks. They decide the SOE is the end of the
run so the U marks the penalty back to B’s 5 YL, the R signals 1/10 for B.

5. A, 3/14 @ B’s 40 YL. B1 intercepts A1’s pass at B’s 4 YL. His momentum takes
   him backward to B’s 2 YL. He’s immediately hit by A2 and fumbles the ball
into B’s EZ. B3 recovers the ball in B’s EZ. The BJ signals a TB due to B1’s
momentum.

6. A is attempting a 2 point Try. A1 is flagged for illegal motion (ILM). A1’s
   pass is intercepted by B3 who returns the ball across A’s GL. After the COP
B4 is flagged for an illegal block in the back (IBB). After the crew discusses
the options the R signals that both live ball fouls offset and the Try will be
replayed.

7. A, 4/16 @ A’s 30 YL. Late in the 4Q. A1 throws a forward pass to A2 who jumps
   straight up @ A’s 45 YL. A2 catches the pass and is pushed in the air by B2.
A2 lands and maintains possession of the ball to the ground at A’s 47 YL. The LJ
marks A2’s forward progress (FWP) @ A’s 47 YL and signals 1/10 to the R. B’s HC
argues that A2’s FWP was over @ A’s 45 YL and B2’s push in the air does not
count toward FWP and it’s a turnover due to A2 being short of the LTG by 1 yd.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A). B1 intercepts a forward pass. Covering official throws his bean bag (BB)
   at the spot of the interception. B). A1 is in a shotgun formation and the
ball is snapped over his head. The R throws his bean bag as the ball rolling
around on the ground.

9. After being tackled A1 gets up from the ground and is trash talking to B1.
   The U comes in, tells A1 to settle down, go back to his huddle, and cool off.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Freshmen game ends in a tie. One HC states he wants to play OT and the other
    HC says he doesn’t. The R tells the HC’s OT is required for all games.
