---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 8"
date:   2013-10-09
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-%E2%80%93-Quiz-8.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 4/4 @ B’s 20 YL. K sets up in a FG formation. The K linemen are standing
   on the LOS. The holder starts yelling out his cadence and suddenly on one of
the words all K players quickly and abruptly shift down into a 3 pt. stance. 3 R
players encroach. The LJ and LM both throw flags and signal FST on R.

2. K players huddle behind their free kick line to start the game. All K players
   break and run toward the ball but then stop before reaching their free kick
line. 2 R players come across their free kick line thinking K is attempting an
onside kick.

3. A, 3/12 @ B’s 45 YL. A is in a 5 wide spread formation. A2, A3 and A4 are on
   the right side of the field. The ball is snapped and A1 throws a forward pass
to A4. A2 and A3 are blocking their opponents down field after the snap but stop
just before the ball is thrown.

4. A, 2/6 @ B’s 30 YL. A1 realizes he’s supposed to be on the field. A only has
   10 players on the field. A1 runs on the field and gets set on the LOS about 7
yds from A’s SL just before the ball is snapped.

5. A, 4/11 @ A's 49 YL. A1 leaves the field and goes into his team box area. A's
   HC is upset with A1 for coming off the field as he’s A's up back on the punt
team. A1 runs back onto the field and assumes his position in the punt
formation. The ball is snapped and punted.

6. A, 3/15 @ B’s 35 YL. A2 runs toward B’s GL. A2 fumbles near the SL at B’s 2
   YL. The fumbled ball crosses the GL inside the pylon. B recovers the fumble
with his one foot touching the SL.

7. K, 4/7 @ R’s 20 YL. Before the snap all K lineman line up with their legs
   behind each other (“locked”) to close the
gaps.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 1/G @ B’s 7 YL. The ball is on the right HM. The LM positions himself 2
   yds outside of the SL and the LJ comes into the field where he’s no more than
10 yds. to the nearest A player on his side of the field.

9. A, 2/7 @ B’s 45 YL. At the snap A2 runs 2 yds and goes OOB on his own and
   runs in the restricted area for 5 yds. then comes back in at B’s 38 YL where
he blocks B2. The LM throws his flag where A2 comes back into the field for
illegal participation.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. A, 2/8 @ B’s 9 YL in OT. The score is 10-10 A1’s pass is intercepted by B1.
    B1 runs the ball 91 yds. the R follows the play in reverse mechanics and
signals TD.
