---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Black and White - Quiz 7"
date:   2013-09-29
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Black and White prepared by Larry Clemmons in association with Beau
Rugg and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Black-and-White-Quiz-7.pdf).

## OHSAA Rules
1. A, 1/10 at A’s 10 YL. A7 drops back into his EZ to pass and his face mask is
   pulled by B37. A7 (a) is downed in the EZ, or (b) fumbles and the ball goes
OOB in the EZ Clock status?

2. K1 punts to R17 who is tackled at R’s 30 YL. R11 commits a BIB at R’s 35 YL
   during the kick. The R and U correctly administer the 10 yard penalty. The
ball is placed at R’s 20 YL, A, 1/10. After two plays have been run, resulting
in a loss of 10 yards, A’s coach asks why it is 3/30. The officiating crew
realizes that the chain crew did not properly set the chains on the COP at the20
YL instead of the 30 YL. Can the chains be reset to reflect the correct LTG?

3. Regulation play ends with the score tied. One of the HC’s wants to use their
   one TO before the coin toss to discuss possible options with his captains.
Legal?

4. K, 4/10 at K’s 12 YL. K6 takes the snap, runs to his right and then performs
   a rugby style punt at K’s 16 YL. (a) The kicked ball is caught by R21 at R’s
40 YL and is tackled there, or (b) R76 attempts to block the kick and runs into
K6 and knocks him to the ground at the K 16 YL. R21 catches the ball at R’s 40
YL and is tackled there. Clock status?

5. A, 2/10 from B’s 37 YL. A11’s legal FP is intercepted by B13 at B’s 3 YL.
   B13’s momentum takes him into his own EZ where an official blows an IW.

6. K, 4/10 at K’s 5 YL. K1 is in his EZ when he kicks. The kick crosses the NZ
   and strikes R8 on the helmet and rebounds back into K’s EZ, where K7 recovers
the ball and carries it to K’s 10 YL. Clock?

7. A, 3/10 at B’s 15 YL. A10 runs to B’s 4 YL and, unable to get OOB, throws a
   FP that falls incomplete. When the ball is dead, 7 seconds remain in the
game. In (a), A is behind by 2 points, or (b) A is ahead by 2 points.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. Team A uses a “hurry- up” offense. How should the R handle these situations?

9. After a KO, the kicking team’s FB is taken off on the wrong side of the
   field.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. During the on field meeting with the coaches the officials notice that both
    schools are wearing non-white jerseys. How should a situation like this be
handled?
