---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 6"
date:   2013-09-29
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-Quiz-6.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 4/9 @ B’s 25 YL. A1 is legally hit as he throws a forward pass @ B’s 35
   YL. Ineligible A74 catches A1’s pass @ B’s 28 YL. The R and U throw a flag
for illegal touching by A74. The R tells B’s coach “you want to decline this and
take the ball right? Is this the only option for B’s HC?

2. A, 3/6 @ A’s 40 YL. A1’s forward pass is caught by A2 who runs for a TD. U
   throws a flag at the LOS for ineligible A2 being illegally downfield (IDF). R
signals the IDF and loss of down.

3. A1’s throws a forward pass to eligible A2 who is in B’s EZ. A2 sees eligible
   A3 standing in the EZ uncovered. A2 jumps and bats the pass to A3 who catches
it for a TD. The LJ throws a flag for illegal batting.

4. A, 4/6 @ B’s 45 YL. 4Q with 5 sec remaining and B leads by 4 pts. A1 runs 3
   YDS beyond the LOS and throws a forward pass into B’s EZ. A2 catches the pass
in B’s EZ. During the play the GC expires. The U drops a flag for illegal
forward pass. B’s HC accepts the penalty and the R signals the penalty, and then
signals that there will be an untimed down.

5. 4Q with 1 sec remaining on the GC. K1 free kicks the ball from K’s 40 YL. K2
   touches the ball at K’s 48 YL. The GC operator starts the clock when K2
touches the ball and the clock expires. The R raises the ball indicating the
game is over.

6. A, 4/10 @ A’s 30 YL. K1 punts the ball and R1 blocks K2 in the back downfield
   during the kick. The LM throws a flag for the block in the back. R1 catches
the ball and runs for 2 yards before he is hit and fumbles the ball. K4 recovers
the fumble. The R signals the block in the back and announces this is a foul
that has PSK enforcement.

7. A2 is running down the field. B1 who was blocked and fell is getting up off
   the ground with one foot, one knee and his left hand on the ground as he
lunges forward to attempt to tackle A2. A2 hurdles B1 and runs for a TD. The BJ
and LJ flag A2 for hurdling.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. Holding is called on A3. R asks B’s HC for his choice. B’s HC wants the
   penalty and R signals holding on A3.

9. Joe is an R. He is Mic’d 6 out of 10 games. Joe does not give players numbers
   when he announces penalties as he believes it embarrasses the players who
fouled.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. October is cancer awareness month. Bob (R) goes on-line and buys his crew
    pink whistles, pink flags and pink down indicators to wear for their games
in October. His BJ refuses to wear any pink but the rest of the crew decides to
wear the pink stuff.
