---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 3"
date:   2013-09-03
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-Quiz-3.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A 1/10 @ A’s 30 YL. A3 comes onto the field and enters the huddle. A1
   immediately leaves and goes to his team box. After the ready for play signal,
the U stops the GC as he notices B1 is bleeding. B1 leaves the field for medical
attention. During this time period A1 re-enters the field and A3 goes back to
his team box

2. A1’s pass it tipped behind the LOS by B2. The ball continues downfield where
   eligible A2 attempts to catch the ball but before the pass reaches him he’s
is interfered with by B3. The BJ and LM throw a flag and signal DPI to the R.

3. A 2/30 @ A’s 5 YL. A1 is carrying the ball and his facemask is grabbed and
   twisted at A’s 10 YL. A1 fumbles the ball and B1 recovers the fumble at A’s
15 YL.

4. A 4/8 @ B’s 40 YL. A1 runs toward the SL and is hit and driven OOB @ B’s 33
   YL. B2 then hits A1 OOB. The LJ throws a flag for a late hit. The R announces
the foul for the late hit will be enforced and it will 1/10 for A @ B’s 18 YL.

5. Late in the 4th quarter A2 (#80) is injured and has to leave the field for
   one play. A’s coach sends A3 in for the one play. A3 is a JV player who is
also wearing #80. Right before the snap the U blows his whistle and throws a
flag for illegal numbering.

6. A 3/6 @ B’s 45 YL. A1 is carrying the ball downfield and spins out of a
   tackle. He sees B1 in front of him. A1 lowers his body and head and delivers
a blow to B1 in the chest with his helmet.

7. A 3/6 @ B’s 20 YL. Team B has 12 players on the field throughout the down. A
   flag is thrown and the R signals illegal substitution.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. On a run play the R’s IP is on the wide side of the field. The U’s IP is
   always on the opposite the R.

9. The BJ’s initial IP always 17 yds. from the LOS no matter what.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. The LJ assesses a UNS foul against the HC in the 1st quarter. In the 2Q the
    LJ throws a second flag for UNS against the Assistant Coach. Is the HC now
disqualified, or does the foul go against the assistant coach?
