---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 9"
date:   2013-10-20
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-Quiz-9.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 1/10 @ B's 38 YL. A1 (ball carrier) is running down the field. The BJ
   throws a flag for holding (HLD) on A2 at A's 40 YL. A1 is downed on B's 48
YL. The HLD foul is 8 YDS beyond the spot where A1 was downed. The questions is
-- Is the spot of enforcement (SOE) @ B's 48 where A1 was downed or B's 40 where
A2 is flagged for the HLD?

2. A, 3/G @ B's 12YL. A1 throws a forward pass to A2. A1 is then roughed (RTP)
   by B1. A2 carries the ball to B's 2 YL where he fumbles the ball into the EZ
and the ball goes across the EL. The LJ and U beanbag the spot where A2 fumbled
the ball. The BJ signals TB.

3. During pregame one of A’s players is found to have face paint on. LJ informs
   the HC that he must remove the paint and is only permitted to have a single
stoke under his eyes.

4. During pregame it’s noticed by the R the VT’s running backs are wearing brown
   gloves to match their team colors of brown and gold. Nothing is said by the
Crew.

5. A, 3/6 @ B’s 40 YL. A1 runs the ball 10 yards and is down. The covering
   official goes to sound his whistle and accidentally drops it. A second goes
by and A1 comes up and blocks B2 after A1 is on the ground knocking B2 to the
ground. Then the covering official sounds his whistle. The U throws his flag in
the air and reports to the R he has a late hit personal foul on A1. A’s HC yells
out and says “There was no whistle. He can hit until he hears a whistle”.

6. K, 4/8 @ A’s 25 YL. K1 is back to punt the ball. The ball is snapped and it’s
   a low snap. K1 rises to kick the ball. He steps forward and extends the ball
out toward his foot and before the ball contacts his foot A1 is tackled by R1.
The R throws a flag and signals roughing the kicker.

7. A, 3/31 @ B’s 49 YL. The ball is snapped to A1 and he pitches the ball back
   to A2 who runs right and hands the ball back to A3 (double reverse). A3 runs
and stops and throws the ball downfield to A5. After he releases the ball A3 is
roughed by B2. The R throws a flag on B1 for roughing the passer. B’s HC asks
for a conference and asks why he would throw a penalty on B1 when A3 was not the
QB and had no protection.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 3/30 @ A’s 49 YL the BJ is at his normal IP (17 yds. off the ball and
   inside the GP uprights). At the snap he immediately moves back anticipating a
pass play.

9. K kicks off to start the game. R1 catches the ball in the middle of the field
   and all officials wind to start the GC.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. At the halftime of the 8th grade game the officials tell the GC operator to
    put 10 minutes on the clock. The GC operator says... “Do I go ahead and put
the 3 minutes on right after halftime or wait on you?” The R says, “Don’t worry
about the 3 minutes that’s only for Varsity games.”
