---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 4"
date:   2013-09-16
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-%E2%80%93-Quiz-4.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. R1 rushes in hard and dives to block K1's punt. R1 misses the ball and falls
   onto the ground near K1 without touching K1. K1's kicking leg comes back down
to the ground and K1 steps on R1 as he is lying under K1. K1 loses his balance
and falls to the ground. Is this running into the kicker?

2. B1 intercepts A1’s pass at B's 7 YL and retreats into B's end zone (no
   momentum) were he is tackled by the face mask by A9 and the down ends. The BJ
rules this as a safety.

3. A, 3/8 at B’s 35 YL. Score B 14 - A 12 with 8 seconds remaining in the 4Q. A5
   drops back to pass, then decides to run. At B's 4YL he passes the ball into
the EZ to eligible A84 for a TD. Time has expired in the game. After a lengthy
crew discussion R signals illegal forward pass and loss of down on A then
signals first down for A as the line to gain was met. The U marks the penalty
off to B’s 9 YL. The R signals for an untimed down since the GC had expired.

4. A, 2/20 at A’s 20 YL. B1 is flagged for holding eligible receiver A2 @ A’s 27
   YL. QB A1 is sacked at A’s 12 YL. The penalty is enforced from the previous
spot.

5. After the center has made his final adjustments and as the R sets the ball
   ready A1 and B1 are both lined up in the NZ.

6. A will attempt a two point Try. B1 intercepts the ball just inside B’s EZ and
   runs it back to B’s 15 YL. During the return B2 pushes A2 in the back in B’s
EZ. The ruling by the LJ was a safety since B’s foul occurred in their EZ.

7. After an interception by B1 he is running down the SL. A2 is being blocked by
   B3. A2 sticks his leg out and trips B1 and B1 falls to the ground. The LM
flags A2 for tripping.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 2/8 @ A’s 11 YL. QB A1 drops back. The R’s IP is on A’s GL and is 8 YD
   wide of the QB on the wide side of the field. A1 drops back and rolls toward
the wide side of the field. A1 is hit near the GL and is taken down. To avoid
getting hit the R drops back 4 to 5 yards into the EZ. The R is unable to
determine where A1’s forward progress stopped.

9. A, 4/7 @ A’s 30 YL. KT lines up in a punt formation. At the snap the LM
   immediately goes downfield. The ball is snapped over the punters (A1) head.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. The Crew observes, during their there pregame walk around, that the field is
    very muddy with a lot of standing water. The officials decide the field is
not safe enough to play the game & ask the HC’s & AD’s to postpone & reschedule
it to a later date.
