---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 5"
date:   2013-09-29
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-Quiz-5.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 4/8 @ A’s 14 YL. 12 Sec remain in the 4Q. A is ahead by 2 pts. A1 throws a
   forward pass to #72 @ A’s 12 YL. B’s HC says he wants to accept the penalty
for illegal touching, but decline the yardage, so his FG kicker has a better
angle at the uprights. Can B’s HC decline the yardage?

2. With 13 sec remaining in the 4Q and A trailing by 3. A1 is flagged for
   holding. A1’s HC calls A’s last TO as the officials stop the clock at the end
of the play. The R signals TO for A. Then the R asks B’s HC if he wants to
accept or decline the penalty.

3. A, 3/7 @ B’s 40 YL. A1 runs OOB at B’s 34 YL and is then hit OOB. The LJ
   flags B1 for the PF late hit. A1 then pushes B1. The LJ flags A1 for a PF.
The R signals both fouls then the U marks 15 yds. on A then 15 back on B. The R
signals 4/1 for team A.

4. A, 2/5 @ A’s 49 YL. A1 drops back to pass. B1 is flagged for roughing the
   passer after A1 released the ball. A2 catches the ball and runs to B’s 4 YL
where he is tackled. The R encourages A’s HC to decline the penalty and keep the
positive yardage.

5. A, 3/6 @ A’s 4 YL. A1 throws a backward pass to A2 who is in A’s EZ. B1 grabs
   A1 by the facemask and twists and brings A1 down in his EZ. The R & LJ both
flag B1 and the LJ signals safety.

6. A, 4/8 @ A’s 49 YL. A1 drops back to pass. He throws a long pass downfield.
   While the ball is in the air A2 is flagged for an illegal low block @ B’s 45
YL. A3 catches the pass and runs to B’s 15 YL where he is tackled. The R marks
this as a spot foul from B’s 45 YL.

7. A2 (ball carrier) is running down the SL. The LM runs into A’s HC for the
   second time in the game. The LM drops a 2nd UNS flag on the A’s HC. A2 scores
a TD on the play.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 1/10 @ A’s 35 YL. The ball is on the LJ side of field near the HM. The LM
   is on his SL. The nearest player to him is near his HM. The ball is snapped
and it is a run play.

9. A’s pass is intercepted by B1 @ B’s 40 YL. The BJ throws his BB at the spot
   where B2 intercepts the ball.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. A penalty flag is thrown on a play at a pivotal part of the game. The HT has
    a video board on their scoreboard. The video board replays the video of the
penalty many times.
