---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 11"
date:   2013-11-01
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-Quiz-11.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. K, 4/13 @ K’s 25 YL. Just after K1’s punt is airborne and untouched by R, K2
   blocks R3. The block by K2 causes R3 to knock K1 to the ground while his
kicking foot is still in the air. The R flags R3 for running into the kicker
(RIK).

2. K, 4/18 @ K’s 40 YL. K1 is in punt formation and receives a high snap. K1
   recovers from the snap and starts to kick the ball. He extends the ball
toward his foot, yet misses it, and the ball drops it to the ground. R1 comes in
and tackles K1. R3 recovers the ball. No flag is thrown on the play.

3. A, 4/G @ B’s 6YL. A1 runs to B’s 1YL and fumbles the ball into the EZ. B2
   picks up the ball and runs it to the other side of the EZ. He is hit by A3
and he fumbles the ball across the EL. The LJ signals a safety.

4. A, 3/9 @ A’s 30 YL. A12 enters the huddle from the sideline. The A players
   tell him to go back to the bench. A12 then goes back off the field into his
team box. The LJ throws a flag and signals illegal substitution to the R.

5. K, 4/4 @ R’s 22 YL. K sets up for a FG attempt. K2 (holder) receives the snap
   while still in his holder position with one knee on the ground. He pitches
the ball backward to K1 who runs the ball to R’s 16 YL. The R signals 1/10 for
K.

6. A1’s pass is tipped behind the NZ by B3. The ball is caught behind the NZ by
   Tackle A 77. A 77 runs for a TD. The U throws a flag for illegal touching.

7. A1 and B1 both commit DB fouls after the play is over. The R signals both
   fouls and signal that the DB fouls offset.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 4/6 @ B’s 38 YL. A1 runs to B’s 31 YL and is tackled inbounds near B’s SL.
   The LJ winds (2X) then gives the TO signal (2X).

9. A1 and B2 start throwing punches after a play. They are standing up swinging
   and the U grabs B2 and pushes him away. Both are ejected from the game.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. A’s HC is ejected from the game. He goes into the stands and sits until the
    game is over.
