---
layout: post
title:  "2013 Rules Geek - Quiz 2"
date:   2013-08-14
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2013/2013-Rules-Geek-Quiz-2.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. From K’s 40 YL K1 onside free kicks the ball high in the air. K2 catches the
   ball untouched by RT @ RT’s 49YL. No RT player was in position to catch the
ball where K2 caught the ball.

2. K1 free kicks the ball to start the 2nd half. The ball becomes comes to rest
   on the RT’s 4 YL. R2 attempts to pick it up
and muffs it into RT’s EZ. K2 jumps on the ball in RT’s EZ. The R signals TD for
the RT.

3. K1’s free kick is grounded and untouched by RT and K2 picks up the kicked
   ball @ R’s 36 YL and advances it for a TD.

4. K lines up for a free kick and R’s HC yells that only K’s players have to be
   within 5 yards of K’s free kick line before the kick.

5. K1 free kicks the ball and R1 runs up and blocks him to the ground while K1’s
   kicking leg is coming back toward the ground @ K’s 41 YL, the kicked ball is
still in the air.

6. On a short free kick R1 gives a fair catch signal. R1 then realizes the ball
   is deeper than he thought and he blocks K2 charging down the field.

7. K1 free kicks the ball deep. R1 is moving backward and jumps at R’s 4 YL and
   catches the ball. His feet come down on R’s 3 YL, however his momentum
carries him into his EZ where he downs the ball.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. 2/G from B’s 3 YL. A1 runs the ball up the middle and is tackled near the GL.
   The U sees the ball cross the GL and turns and looks at the LJ and signals 2
thumbs up (or some other kind of signal) to let him know it’s a TD.

9. At the pregame conference the HT HC states he plans on having ball boys on
   both sides of the field to relay balls in quickly to aid in his fast paced
offense. He says he has done this all season and it has worked well.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. The crew arrives on the field before the game as required 35 minutes prior
    to game time. At 7:17 thunder is heard by the crew. They inform the HT HC
that the field must be cleared and that the 30 min inclement weather policy is
in effect. The HC says, “that doesn’t start until the game actually starts you
have no authority until then.”
