---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 1"
date:   2014-08-21
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_1.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. K, 4/9 @ K’s 25 YL. K1’s scrimmage kick is blocked in the NZ by R1. The kick
   goes beyond the NZ and R2 muffs the ball back behind the NZ where K2 picks it
up and advances it to R’s 45 YL where K2 is tackled.

2. K, 4/10 @ K’s 20 YL. K1’s punt is in flight, R2 is in position to catch the
   kick @ K’s 45 YL. K3 is close to R2 but doesn’t make contact. R2 has to step
around K3 to catch the ball. R2 is downed at K’s 40 YL.

3. K, 4/7 @ K’s 2 YL. K’s scrimmage kick is high and short. R2 and R3 are both
   back and in position to receive the kick. R2 gives a legal fair catch signal,
however R3 catches the ball. The BJ blows the play dead. R’s coach informs the
officials he wants to free kick after the fair catch.

4. K, 4/6 @ R’s 10 YL. K1’s field goal attempt goes directly over the right
   upright of the goal post.

5. K, 4/15 @ K’s 10 YL. R3 is in position to receive K1’s scrimmage kick. After
   the kick R3 raises both of his hands and waves them around over his head and
then catches the ball.

6. K, 4/15 A K’s 15 YL. K1 bobbles the long snap. As he picks up the ball and
   immediately rises to kick it he is tackled by R1. R throws a flag for
roughing the kicker (RTK).

7. K, 4/8 @ R’s 15 YL. K lines up for a field goal attempt. The snap is high and
   the K1 rises off the ground to catch the high snap and yells “Fire”. He
returns his knee immediately to the ground and then shuffle passes to K2. K2
runs the ball for a TD.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. The situation indicates that K will potentially on-side kick. The LJ and LM
   disagree whether they should move up or not. The LJ moves up while the LM
stays back.

9. After a TD the KT lines up in a muddle huddle near the HT SL. The LJ lines up
   between the SL and the numbers.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. At a high school scrimmage the HT HC informs the crew that he plans to
    scrimmage his varsity for 2 hours and then his JV and Frosh combined for 2
more hours.
