---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 2"
date:   2014-08-21
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_2.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. K, 4/8 @ R’s 49 YL. K1’s punt is partially blocked by R1 behind the NZ. R2 is
   in position to catch the ball behind the NZ. The ball hits K3 in the shoulder
as it comes down and then hits the ground and R2 immediately recovers the ball.

2. After a fair catch by R the U sets the ball down near the VT’s HM. The R sets
   the ball RFP. Then RT’s HC asks for the ball to be moved to his side of the
field on the HM.

3. R1 catches K1’s punt and then quickly gives a valid fair catch signal after
   he runs for 3 yds.

4. K1’s punt is high and short. K2 runs down and catches the kicked ball in
   flight beyond the NZ. No R player was in position or around the area where K2
caught the ball. The BJ throws a flag for KCI.

5. After K1 punts the ball, R1 runs forward to catch the ball and gives an
   invalid fair catch signal. The BJ throws a flag. R1 realizes the ball is over
his head. So he doesn’t attempt to catch the ball and rather starts blocking K2
as he comes down the field.

6. K, 4/12 @ K’s 40 YL. K1 punts the ball and R1 muffs the ball at R’s 35 YL as
   he tries to catch it. K2 picks up the ball at R’s 25 YL and runs it for a TD.

7. K 4/10 @ R’s 35 YL. K1’s FG attempt is short and hits the ground at R’s 15
   YL. K2 tries to pick up the ball @ R’s 10 YL but muffs it and then R2
recovers the ball @ R’s 5 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. After A1’s releases his pass the R must QUICKLY yell out “Balls Away” so B
   rushers know to stay off the passer.

9. During the DB interval between plays a team’s coaches are okay as long as
   they stays behind the wing officials position on the field no matter how far
the wing official is away from his respective SL.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. The time keeper arrives in the crew’s locker room around 6:30pm. He informs
    the crew that the PC operator will not be at the game. He asks the BJ if he
will operate the visible stadium PC from the field. It’s actually a Ready Ref PC
remote timer that goes on the operator’s belt.
