---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 7"
date:   2014-10-09
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_7.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 3/10 @ A’s 30 YL. A1 catches a forward pass and is running down the field.
   B1 comes up quickly and with his head up drives his facemask into A1’s chest
and simultaneously wraps his arms around A1 and takes him to the ground at B’s
34 YL. LJ throws a flag for targeting.

2. K, 4/10 @ K’s 25 YL. K is in Scrimmage kick (punt) formation. K1 receives the
   snap, tucks the ball, and runs to his right. R1 is bearing down on K1 when K1
raises the ball at the last second and kicks it rugby style. R1 didn’t tip the
ball. R1 cannot stop his charge and runs into K1. The R doesn’t throw a flag for
running into or roughing the kicker.

3. This one is unfortunately called on the defense a lot! K, 4/4 @ K’s 45 YL. K
   is in scrimmage kick formation (punt). K lineman comes to the LOS and gets
into a 2 point stance. K2 starts calling out verbal signals and suddenly all K
lineman abruptly and quickly go to a 3 point stance. 3 of the RT lineman
encroach upon this abrupt movement by the KT lineman. The LJ and LM throw a flag
and signal encroachment on RT.

4. R1 is standing at his GL on a deep KO. R1 steps forward and catches the
   kicked ball with his left foot on R’s GL. The ball when R1 catches is between
the 1 YL and R’s GL. R1 starts to advance but the R signals a TB since R1’s foot
was on the GL.

5. K, 4/10 @ K’s 20 YL. K1 punts the ball and during the punt R1 is flagged for
   holding K2 on R’s 45 YL. There is no R player in position to catch the ball
and K3 muffs the ball at R’s 30 YL. The ball bounces back to R’s 22 YL where R2
picks up the ball and is downed at K’s 45 YL. The R signals holding on R1 and
states this is a PSK violation and enforces the penalty from the spot of K3’s
first touching (R’s 30 YL).

6. The Johnny Manziel play vs. the Ravens. A1 and A2 run toward their SL and A4
   comes into the game as a substitute. A1 stops on the field near the SL
outside of the 9 yd. marks while A2 goes into his team box. A1 is facing his SL
and his HC is yelling at him at the snap. A4 throws a forward pass to A1 who
advances the ball 15 yards.

7. Prior to the snap on a Try-Kick all offensive lineman have their feet behind
   the lineman next to them (locked legs). The ball is snapped and the kick is
good.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 1/10 @ B’s 10 YL. A is ahead by 40 pts with: 38 seconds remaining in the
   4Q. B is out of TO’s. A’s HC informs the LJ his QB is taking a knee. The LM
informs B’s HC that A is taking a knee. The R yells out to all players “protect
yourself Gentlemen this play is still live”.

9. Between downs A’s HC keeps walking to the bottom of the 9 yard marks to relay
   plays to his QB.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Before the game the HT HC informs the R one of his players is wearing a
    cast. The R asks for a medical letter from the player’s doctor.
