---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 5"
date:   2014-09-14
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_5_revised.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 3/10 @ A’s 20 YL. A1 catches a forward pass and advances to A’s 30 YL
   where he fumbles. A2 recovers the loose ball @ A’s 33 YL. B2 is flagged for
roughing the passer. The crew enforces the penalty for roughing the passer from
the previous spot since this was a loose ball play.

2. R1 catches a FK @ R’s 4 YL. He begins to run toward the opposite side of the
   field then runs back into his own EZ to avoid being tackled. R1 is then
tackled in his EZ by K2 who is also flagged for grasping and twisting R1’s
facemask. The R signals a TB and enforces the penalty from R’s 20 YL. 1/10 for R
@ R’s 35 YL.

3. During the pregame conference the VT HC informs the R that he has 3 players
   on the SL wearing #12 due to dressing his freshmen and JV teams. The R tells
the HC that players may not have identical numbers on his team.

4. 2 pt. Try. A1 fumbles the ball @ B’s 5 YL. The LJ blows the whistle and
   signals the Try has failed. The ball rolls into B’s EZ where prone A2
recovers the fumble.

5. Try. Holder K1 muffs the snap, the ball rolls on the ground, & K1
   intentionally bats it forward at K’s 6 YL. K2 recovers the ball @ R’s 4 YL
and carries the ball across R’s GL.

6. A, 3/3 @ B’s 10 YL. B1 runs up the LOS and stomps his foot hard on the ground
   and A2 flinches. The U throws a flag and signals UNS on B1.

7. A, 4/2 @ B’s 10 YL. A1 (snapper) comes to the LOS and places his hands on the
   ball. Then he removes his hands from the ball to fix his shoulder pad. The R
has not marked the ball ready for play yet. The U throws flag for a false start
on the snapper.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 3/5 @ B’s 15 YL. A1 carries the ball and is downed near B’s 15 YL. The LM
   blows his whistle and looks back over his shoulder to see if A1 has met the
LTG. As the LM turns back around he sees B2 go to the ground.

9. During the pregame conference with the HT HC the R is required to ask if all
   players are properly equipped, Captain’s #’s, place kicker R/L footed,
unbalanced line and if they have any unusual plays.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. BJ suffers a knee injury. In order to take some of the responsibility off
    Joe the crew decides to add a 6th official to their crew to act as a field
judge for the final 6 games of the year.
