---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 3"
date:   2014-08-27
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_3_revised.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. R1 muffs a kickoff at R’s 10 YL. R3 intentionally kicks the loose ball into
   R’s EZ. K4 recovers the ball in R’s EZ. The R signals a TD for K.

2. A, 3/6 @ B’s 25 YL. : 03 remain in the 3Q. A1 throws a long pass, A2 is
   flagged for holding and B3 is flagged for a 5 yard facemask during the play.
Time expires during the down. The R signals the fouls offset and then raises the
ball signaling the end of the period.

3. A, 3/6 @ A’s 8 YL. A1 fumbles the ball and the ball is rolling slowly on A’s
   3 YL. A2 is trying to get to the ball and he pushes B3 into the ball and the
ball rolls into A’s EZ. A6 recovers the ball in the EZ and is immediately
downed. The R signals a TB since B3’s touching of the ball caused the direction
of the rolling ball to change.

4. A, 3/25 @ A’s 30 YL. A1 (passer) is rolling out and as he starts to run B2
   grabs A1’s facemask and twists it. A1 breaks free and then completes a short
pass to A2 at A’s 35 YL who is immediately hit and fumbles the ball. A3 then
recovers the ball at A’s 37 YL. The crew enforces the penalty at the spot where
A3 recovered the fumble.

5. Good Penalty enforcement question... TRICKY! A, 1/10 @ A’s 45 YL. A1 is
   sacked @ A’s 35 YL. During the down A2 is guilty of an illegal block below
the waist @ A’s 47 YL. The crew enforces the foul from the 47 YL.

6. A, 2/20 @ B’s 25 YL. A breaks their huddle and comes to the line. All the A
   lineman stand straight up. A1 says “set” and all A lineman go into a 3 pt.
stance except guard A2 who is arranging his shoulder pads. A3 goes in motion
after which A2 goes into his 3 pt. stance. The ball is snapped while A3 is still
in motion. A1 throws a TD pass to A4. No flag is thrown.

7. A, 1/10 @ A’s 45 YL. B1 intercepts A1’s forward pass @ B’s 35 YL. B1 runs the
   ball to A’s 20 YL where A2 grabs and turns B1’s facemask and B1 fumbles the
ball. While the ball is loose, B3 clips A3 @ A’s 25 YL. A4 recovers the fumble
and is tackled at A’s 17 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. The BJ has to signal a foul prior to a KO. He has the KT’s ball in his hands.
   He tosses the ball to the kicker and then signals the foul and then asks the
kicker for the ball and walks off the penalty yardage.

9. A’s ball 1/10 @ B’s 13 YL. The BJ’s pre-snap IP is on the GL.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. During a down a whistle is heard in the VT stands. Ignore the whistle.
