---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 9"
date:   2014-11-13
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_9.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. K, 4/10 @ K’s 30 YL. K1 punts the ball beyond the NZ. R1 gives an invalid FC
   signal. A flag is thrown on R1 yet no whistle is blown to end the down as the
signal was invalid.

2. K1’s KO is muffed by R1 at RT’s 3 YL, the ball rolls across R’s GL. R1 picks
   up the ball in his EZ and is downed at R’s 25YL.

3. A, 4/1 @ A’s 40 YL. B1 enters the field and assumes his position as a punt
   returner. B1 then realizes A’s not punting and immediately leaves the field.
After the snap A1 is stopped short of the LTG.

4. On a Try A’s captain informs the U they want the ball placed on the right
   side HM. The R sounds the RFP then A1 calls TO. After the TO A’s captain
requests the ball to be moved to the center of the field.

5. A, 3/7 @ B’s 25 YL. At the snap A77 (tackle) goes 4 yards downfield.
   Realizing he should not be downfield he retreats behind the NZ. A2 then
throws a forward pass to A3 at B’s 15 YL.

6. During a successful 2 pt. Try B1 roughs the passer.

7. Prior to the opening KO KT is not on the field to start the game. The R flags
   the KT for a 5 yard delay of game penalty.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. On Try-Run A1 is downed just short of the GL. The LM & LJ both mark FWP.

9. It is a very rainy and muddy night. A2 goes OOB without contact. A2 comes
   back in and catches A1’s forward pass. The LJ drops his BB where A2 went OOB
and his flag where A2 re-entered.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. The PC must be corrected a 4th time. The R informs the HT PB to turn the PC
    off and that the PC will be kept on the field by the BJ.
