---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 6"
date:   2014-09-28
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_6.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. B1 intercepts A1’s forward pass in B’s EZ. B1 pitches the ball backwards to
   B2. B2 muffs the ball across the SL behind B’s GL.

2. K, 4/G @ K’s 8 YL. K is in punt formation. K1 muffs the snap but quickly
   recovers the ball. K1 throws a forward pass to ineligible K2, who is also in
K’s EZ. K2 muffs the ball and it fall incomplete.

3. A, 3/8 @ B’s 40 YL. A1 is under heavy pressure, A1 throws a forward pass that
   accidentally hits ineligible A2 in the back @ B’s 38 YL. The U throws a flag
for ineligible downfield on A2 and the LJ throws a flag for illegal touching on
A2.

4. A, 2/5 @ A’s 45 YL. A1 (snapper) comes to the line and tilts the ball up to
   90 degrees. B1 encroaches and the LJ throws a flag for a snap infraction on
A1.

5. A, 3/5 @ B’s 30 YL. The R sets the ball RFP. A1 (snapper) places both of his
   hands on the ball. A’s HC changes the play from the SL and A1 takes one hand
off the ball and turns and looks at his HC. The U throws a flag for a snap
infraction.

6. A, 3/10 @ B’s 11 YL. Prior to the snap, B11 recognizes he is supposed to be
   in the game & he enters on A’s side of the neutral zone. B1’s HC yells at B11
and he immediately runs back into his team box. The ball is snapped before B11
gets to his team side. The R throws his flag for illegal substitution.

7. A, 4/G @ B’s 3 YL. A1 throws a forward pass that hits the U (who is inbounds)
   in the head. The ball rebounds into the air and eligible A2 catches it in B’s
EZ. The LJ signals TD. The R informs the coaches there is no TD and the down
will be replayed (do-over).

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 1/10 @ B’s 35 YL with 42 sec. remaining in the 4Q. B is out of TO’s and A
   is leading 28-20. A’s HC states to the LJ his QB will “take a knee” the
remainder of the 4Q. The LJ makes the R aware A is taking a knee. The R
communicates this to the B’s HC and he says he’s okay with it. The U signals TO
and informs the R team A is only ahead by 8 pts and cannot take a knee unless
it’s 9 points.

9. During the pregame conference the HT HC tells the crew that his team will
   onside kick most of the time in the game. The crew lines up with the LJ and
LM at the RT’s GL for the first kick of the game.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Team A’s HC informs the crew in the pregame he has a player wearing an
    insulin pump. He says his doctor requires him to wear it at all times. He
says it usually has a padded holder but the player forgot it at home so they
have it tucked into the player’s pants. The HC shows the R a statement from his
doctor.
