---
layout: post
title:  "2014 Rules Geek - Quiz 8"
date:   2014-10-26
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week's Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2014/2014_rules_geek_quiz_8.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. K, 4/10 @ K’s 40 YL. 2 seconds left in the 2Q. K1’s punt is away as time
   expires in the 2Q. After the down K1 piles on, then R2 punches K1 and then K1
punches R2. R signals all dead ball fouls offset and raises the ball indicating
the end of the 2Q. He also signals K1 and R2 are disqualified.

2. During a kick Try B1 holds and the Try is successful. R explains to A’s HC
   that the option is to decline the penalty and the Try is good or take the
penalty and re-try the untimed down.

3. A, 4/G @ B’s 2 YL. Runner A1 is pushed in the back by A2 at B’s 1 YL. A1 goes
   forward and the LJ signals TD.

4. A, 3/4 @ B's 48 YL. A1 advances to B's 45 YL. During the run B1 holds. The
   penalty is accepted. At the end of the down: 03 remain in the 3Q. Because the
penalty was the only reason the GC was stopped, it is started with the RFP
signal and the 3Q ends before A snaps the ball. The R signals there will be an
untimed down.

5. A, 2/G @ B's 5 YL with: 12 seconds remaining in the 4Q. A1 advances to the 1
   YL. After the ball is dead, B1 fouls. The GC is stopped with: 05 remaining in
the 4Q. The GC is restarted when the ball is marked RFP. Before A can snap the
ball, time expires.

6. A, 3/12 @ B’s 24 YL. A1 breaks free on B's 20 YL and is near B’s GL on a run
   which will score the go ahead TD. Just before entering the EZ, A1 turns and
taunts B1. Time in the 4Q expires during the run.

7. A1 receives the snap behind his own GL. A1 advances, but is tackled and the
   ball becomes dead with its foremost point in the field of play, but part of
the ball is in A’s EZ.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. The crew decides that they will wrap the balls of their flags in pink tape
   for cancer awareness.

9. K’s KO goes OOB at R’s 31 YL. The LJ throws his flag high into the air and
   goes to the spot where the ball went OOB and stops there. The BJ runs to the
HC and gives K’s coach his penalty choices.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Some players stop or slow down during a down from a whistle in the stands.
