---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 11 - Rules Geek"
date:   2015-10-30
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2015/rules_geek_quiz_11.pdf).

## Rules
1. A, 2/5 @ B’s 30 YL. A1’s pass is intercepted by B1. While A1’s pass was in
   flight B2 was flagged for defensive pass interference (DPI). After the
interception the BJ blows his whistle inadvertently.

2. A1 scores a TD on a long pass. On the Try K’s ball boy hands another ball
   (“kicking ball”) to the LJ to bring in for the Try kick.

3. A, 1/10 @ A’s 20 YL. During a run play at A’s 40 YL the HL collides with one
   of B’s assistant coaches in the restricted area, the HL throws his flag. A1
is downed at B’s 35 YL. The R gives signal 38 (personal foul) and signal 27
(UNS) and the crew marks the penalty off from the spot of the foul.

4. A, 3/6 @ B’s 45 YL. B1’s helmet comes completely off during an attempt to
   tackle A2. B1 remains in contact with A2 and A2 drags B1 3 yards before going
to the ground. The U throws a flag on B1 for illegal participation for
continuing to participate after his helmet came off.

5. A, 3/15 @ A’s 45 YL. A1 is involved in close line play with B1. A1’s helmet
   comes completely off as the play continues downfield without being caused by
a foul by any B player. A1 continues downfield but does not touch anyone
throughout the remainder of the play. The LJ sees A1 continue downfield without
his helmet and doesn’t throw a flag since he did not participate in any contact.

6. After A1 crosses B’s GL. He immediately raises the ball in the air for a
   second. He stops and crosses his chest with one hand and points to the sky
with the other hand briefly. He then looks into the stands and gives the “feed
me” (like a spoon into his mouth motion) and pounds his chest.

## OHSAA Mechanics
7. Two upright opposing players start to throw punches at each other. The U gets
   between them and pushes them away from each other.

8. After a penalty the calling official runs 10 steps to get closer to the R to
   yell the foul, give the signal and tell the number of the offending player.

9. The passer is tackled, the R determines his passing arm was going forward at
   the time he was tackled and it’s ruled an incomplete pass. The R only gives
the incomplete pass signal (2X).

## OHSAA Regulations
10. During a wet weather game A’s HC sends in his composite game balls to be
    checked before the game instead of his leather game balls. The U tells the
host management the game balls must be leather and not a rubber composite ball.
