---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 9 - Your Call"
date:   2015-10-16
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2015/your_call_quiz_9.pdf).

## Rules
1. Quarterback A1 drops back and throws a forward pass toward the sideline to A2
   who is behind the neutral zone. B1 blocks A2 with a legal block behind the
line prior to A2 touching the ball. The pass falls incomplete. The Wing official
throws a flag for DPI as B1 didn’t give A1 the opportunity to move toward or
catch the pass. Where do we administer the foul?

2. Prior to the game starting, A85 is noticed to have professionally
   manufactured compression shorts that have knee pads built in. The knee pads
are 1⁄2 inch thick shock absorbing material. A85’s pants then cover the knee and
knee pads. But, A85 doesn’t have knee pads in the pockets of his/her pants.
Legal?

3. After their Try, the KT’s KO is kicked into the ground at the KT 44 YL and
   the ball rebounds into the air. K27 jumps up and bats the ball towards RT’s
goal line at the KT’s 47 YL. The ball is recovered by K44 at RT’s 42 YL. Who’s
ball is it and at what YL?

4. With the score 14 for the HT and 12 for the VT, the HT has the ball 4th and
   15 from their own 3 YL. There is 18 seconds remaining in the 4th quarter. The
HT kicker K1 is punting into a very strong wind. The wind holds up K1’s kick and
R44 calls for a fair catch and catches the ball at their +12 YL. What are RT’s
options at this time?

5. During a Try, the holder (K14) of the place­kick Try flips the ball backward
   over his shoulder to the kicker (K44) who throws a pass to eligible K19.
K14’s knee was on the ground when he/she pitched the ball to K44. Legal?

6. During a Try, K22 comes in as the snapper. He is in the middle of the
   formation with four other linemen numbered 50 to 79 surrounding him. K22’s
snap goes over the head of holder (K15) and after rising; K15 secures the
football and immediately looks down­field for a receiver. K15 throws a pass to
K22 who went into the end­zone after seeing K15 scrambling around in the
backfield. Touchdown?

7. It is third and 6 from A's 45 YL. A1 advances to B's 30 where B1 grabs his
   face mask/helmet opening in attempting the tackle. Before A1 can be tackled
he/she hands off to A2 who is subsequently tackled on the 20 YL. Where is the
basic spot of enforcement if A accepts the penalty for B1's foul?

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. In play #3 above, would the officials throw a bean bag or a flag at the KT47?

9. What is the IP for the Wings if during a Try the KT takes a muddle huddle
   position after breaking the huddle? Would the Wings need to change their IP
if the KT legally shifts to a traditional kicking formation?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Just prior to the 2nd half kick­off, the game is suspended for inclement
    weather. After waiting 30 minutes from the last time lightning flash sighted
or thunder heard, the teams re­enter the field. Should the captains be asked if
they want to change their choice of options?
