---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 8 - Rules Geek"
date:   2015-10-09
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2015/rules_geek_quiz_8.pdf).

## Rules
1. A Scrimmage kick by K1 is partially blocked in the NZ by R1. The kicked ball
   goes beyond the NZ where R2 muffs it back behind the NZ. K2 recovers behind
the NZ and advances across R's GL.

2. K, 3/10 @ K’s 10 YL. K1's punt is blocked and recovered on K's 4 YL and is
   simultaneously by K2 and R1.

3. K, 4/10 @ K’s 5 YL. K1’s punt is partially blocked and the kicked ball goes
   beyond the NZ in the air. R1 muffs the kicked ball in flight back behind the
NZ. K1 recovers the kick in his EZ and takes a knee.

4. K1 attempts to down a punt beyond the NZ, but his touching only slow it down.
   The bouncing ball is subsequently recovered by R1, who advances 40 yards but
then fumbles and K1 recovers. K1 is immediately tackled.

5. A, 3/9 @ B’s 20 YL. B1 leaps in the air over his 2YL and has A’s pass in his
   grasp. He returns to the ground on his 1 YL and his momentum carries him back
into his EZ where he is downed.

6. Time expires for the 2Q as A11 runs the ball beyond the LTG and A11 then
   throws a forward pass to A9 who scores a TD.

## OHSAA Mechanics
7. The Crew arrives at an 8th grade game and walks to the center of the field
   and yells to both ends of the field “coach I need your captains”. They
conduct the CT and options, then get A’s ball and place it at the 35YL and blow
the whistle and tell the coaches “let’s go”.

8. R tells his crew in the locker room he called RT for running into the kicker.
   He says “I always defer to running into vs. roughing when I am in doubt”.

9. A, 2/8 @ A’s 4YL. At the snap the HL and LJ stay @ the 4YL and then move up
   field as the play dictates.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Crew places the ball 1/10 @ B’s 10 YL for OT. There were 3 overtimes (6
    different possessions) that were all started from the 10 YL.
