---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 5 - Your Call"
date:   2015-09-18
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2015/your_call_quiz_5.pdf).

## Rules
1. First and 10 @ A’s 40 YL. QB sets up to throw a pass. Defender B1grabs and
   twists the QB’s face­ mask. QB breaks free from that face mask, runs a few
yards and then throws a forward pass which is caught by A 80 at B’s 40 YL. Do we
have a roughing the passer penalty that would move the ball to B’s 25 or would
we have a 15 yard face mask foul from the previous spot?

2. A 85, in the end zone and near the end line, jumps high to catch a pass. A
   85, after catching the pass, while in the air, is contacted by B 25 so that
he comes down out of bounds. Had he not been contacted, he would have come down
in the end­zone.

3. 2nd and 10 @ A’s 30 YL. A1 takes the snap and throws a legal forward pass
   downfield where B1 intercepts. While the pass was in the air, A7 commits OPI
on A’s 44 YL. B1 returns the interception 15 yards then fumbles at A’s 20 YL and
A 8 recovers the ball at A’s 15 YL.

4. After a down a B lineman (on the LOS) asks the U to watch an A lineman (on
   the LOS) that is blocking below the waist, in the free blocking zone, as the
QB is in the shot gun position. The U tells the A lineman that he can’t block
below the waist from a 2 point stance since his QB is in the shot gun.

5. Third and 10 @ B's 40 YL. A1 gains 10 yards and is downed on B's 30. A2
   taunts B1 during the run.

6. After A1 scores a touchdown, he is struck by B1. The A HC then insults a game
   official before the penalty for the personal foul by B1 is administered.

7. R1 is running near a sideline as he attempts to catch a free kick in flight.
   R1 has one foot on the sideline, when he reaches through the plane of the
sideline. The ball bounces off his hands and lands out of bounds.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. How does the IP for the Wings differ in Reverse Mechanics (RM) from Goal Line
   Mechanics (GLM)?

9. Pre­snap: How should the wings use their feet to show A players where the LOS
   is?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. On which YL would the offense normally start on after their opponent’s
    safety in an 8th grade game?
