---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 7 - Your Call"
date:   2015-10-02
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2015/your_call_quiz_7.pdf).

## Rules
1. On a Try, A is going for 2 points. Quarterback A1 scrambles back to the 16 YL
   where he is tackled by the facemask.

2. A 2nd & 8 @ B45 YL.A20 advances the ball to the B26 YL. During the play the
   BJ throws is flag for B having 12 players during the play.

3. Ball carrier A1 is running in the free blocking zone and B1 grabs A1's jersey
   collar opening from behind and pulls him backward to the ground.

4. A 1st & 10 from A’s 5 YL. A1 drops back into his end zone, where he is
   tackled by the tooth and mouth protector that is attached to the facemask,
and fumbles. The ball rolls out of bounds at A’s 3 YL.

5. When the R determines a player is injured after the down, he immediately
   calls an officials time­out. He directs both teams outside the 9 yard marks.
Both Wings notify their teams that the coaches must remain off the field, in the
team box.

6. KT lines up for a free­kick with 4 KT players on one side of the kicker and 6
   KT members on the other side of the kicker K44. After the R’s ready­for­play
signal, K44 runs toward the football and as he reaches the ball he spins around
180 degrees and uses the heel of his foot to kick the football. An instant
before K44’s heel contacts the football the other foot touches KT’s free­kick
line.

7. Fourth & 11 from K's 36 YL. While KT’s punt was in flight, beyond the
   expanded neutral zone, R6 was guilty of holding K3 at R's 32 YL. The kick
goes into the end zone.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. Second and four for A on their +11yard­line. The BJ takes his IP on the EL
   preparing for a pass.

9. If the HL has a balanced line on his/her side and also has the closest player
   off the LOS, he/she would only need to hold & punch back with their arm until
the snap.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. During the pre­game (crew/head coach) conference the HC notifies the crew
    that one of his players has an artificial leg. The HC says they have a
letter of approval from the OHSAA, and provides that letter to the R. Since the
player has an artificial leg, no special padding needs inspected by the U.
