---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 6 - Your Call"
date:   2015-09-27
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers.

## Rules
1. Wide receiver A85 while running his route steps on the sideline at B’s 40 YL,
   returns inbounds at B’s 36 YL, and catches a pass. He then runs to B’s 20 YL
where he is tackled.

2. With time expiring in the second or fourth period and A behind in the score,
   A1 intentionally throws the ball forward to the ground in order to stop the
clock. A1’s action took place immediately after receiving the snap while A1 was
lined up 3 yards deep.

3. KT’s punt goes approximately 35 yards downfield in the air where it lands on
   the foot of a KT player then continues to roll another 35 yards where it is
downed by KT.

4. A’s ball third and six from B’s 16 YL. A11's forward pass is simultaneously
   controlled near the EL by airborne A82 and B31. Both have control of the ball
when they land in the EZ, with B31's feet inbounds in the EZ, and A82's feet
landing on top of players. They then go immediately out of bounds over the EL.

5. On fourth and four from A's 35­yard line, KT comes to the line in a scrimmage
   formation. After calling a few signals, A1 says "shift." All 11 players then
make a movement. Some players move to a new position for a scrimmage­kick
formation, while four interior linemen remain in place and move from a
hands­on­thighs position to an upright position and finally to a three point
stance.

6. During a Try, R1 jumps and steps on the back of snapper A1 immediately after
   the snap as he propels himself into the air in an attempt to block the kick.
The Try kick is good.

7. During a field goal attempt, R5 who is in the EZ leaps up and touches the
   ball which caroms through the uprights, above the crossbar.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. Prior to the snap, what signal should the Wings use on 2nd,3rd or 4th down
   when is A is close to a first down , indicating they should pinch in once the
ball is dead?

9. If, during a Try­Kick, KT fakes a kick and runs the ball, what should be the
   Wings R&R?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. True or False? Only a blue bean bag can be used in Varsity games?
