---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 10 - Rules Geek"
date:   2015-10-24
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2015/rules_geek_quiz_10.pdf).

## Rules
1. A, 4/G @ A’s 9 YL (2 remaining in the 3Q). A1 catches a forward pass for a
   TD. During the play A2 is flagged for OPI. The GC expired during the down. B
chooses to accept the penalty. The R raises the ball ending the 3Q. The Crew
enforces the 15 yd. OPI penalty @ the beginning of the 4Q.

2. This one is missed a lot! A, 2/10 @ B’s 40 YL. A2 comes onto the field and
   replaces A1. A1 leaves the
field and enters into his team box. After A’s huddle breaks A’s HC yells for A2
to come off the field and sends in A1 back in prior to the snap.

3. A, 3/5 @ B’s 10 YL. A1 (tight end) is on the end of the line. A1 has his hand
   on the ground and prior to the snap lifts his hand and moves out to a wide
receiver position. The LJ throws a flag and signals false start.

4. A, 3/5 @ A’s 25 YL. A1 (#54) is lined up as a guard on A’s LOS. During a pass
   play A1 immediately blocks B2 and is @ A’s 27 YL when the pass is thrown. The
U flags A1 for ineligible receiver illegally downfield.

5. During a Try-Kick the R tells the place kicker he must use a kicking tee.

6. The GC quits working just after the game starts. The LJ assumes
   responsibility for the GC on his watch. At 4 minutes left in the 2Q he stops
the GC (TO signal 2X) on his watch so the R can inform each team’s HC and
captains that 4 minutes remain in the 2Q.

## OHSAA Mechanics
7. On a direct hand to hand or shotgun snap from snapper to the QB the ball
   immediately falls to the ground and the officials throw their BB’s.

8. After an interception the LJ signals TO (2X) and the R then signals the new
   direction.

9. After A2 is downed near A’s SL he is very close to the LTG. The R signals TO
   (2X) and then signals to bring the chains in for a measurement. The BJ comes
and places his hand on the ball for the measurement. The ball is short of the
LTG and the R picks up the ball and chains from the ground and to spot the ball
on the nearest HM. The LJ holds the spot with his foot.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. During a 8th grade game the varsity team is practicing next to the field on
    a practice field. During a play the players stop because they hear a whistle
by the varsity coaches on the practice field.
