---
layout: post
title:  "2015 Quiz 4 - Rules Geek"
date:   2015-09-12
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2015/2015-Rules-Geek-Quiz-4.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. K, 4/8 @ K’s 2 YL. K1 punts the ball and R1 gives a valid fair catch signal.
   R2 catches the ball and R’s HC informs the LJ he wants to attempt a free kick
after fair catch.

2. The free kick KO by K1 is possessed by R1 who is airborne & alights with one
   foot in contact with the sideline at the RT’s 26 YL.

3. A, 2/9 @ A’s 25 YL. A1 completes a forward pass to A2 @ B’s 40 YL where A2 is
   immediately tackled. B1 roughs A1 after the pass is thrown. The R signals the
penalty and then penalty declined; 1/10 for A @ B’s 40 YL. The HC argues he
wants the penalty and the R states this is a loose ball foul that will be
enforced from the previous spot and it’s more advantageous to decline to
penalty.

4. A, 3/5 @ A’s 30 YL. A2 (snapper) is blocking when his helmet comes off at A’s
   32 YL. A2 hustles to the A 36 YL and continues to block B1. The U blows his
whistle and signals to stop the GC due to A2’s helmet coming off.

5. A, 2/10 @ B’s 40 YL. A1 hands the ball off to A2 (right guard) who turns and
   faces his EL and is 2 yards behind the LOS when he receives the ball. A2 is
downed at B’s 28 YL. The U throws a flag for illegal handing.

6. A, 2/10 @ B’s 35 YL. A1 is a receiver and is lined up 3 yards from the SL at
   the snap. The ball is advanced 1 yard. A1 simply blocks B1. A1 then goes back
on his side of the NZ still 3 yards from the SL and never went inside the
numbers since the last snap. The ball is snapped and the LJ throws a flag for
illegal formation for A1 not being inside the 9 yard marks prior to the snap.

## OHSAA Mechanics
7. Sub varsity game. A, 3/10 @ B’s 30 YL. A2 is lined up in an eligible position
   but is numbered 71. A2 catches a forward pass and scores a TD. The U flags A2
for illegal touching.

8. During a sub varsity game (4 man mechanics) the veteran R tells the U to keep
   the 25 second PC since he is facing the QB.

9. On a penalty called by the U there is confusion how the penalty is to be
   administered. The Crew gets together and the R tells the U he needs to
explain what he thinks. The LJ starts to talk and the R says “he threw the flag
this is between the U and I only”.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. After the opening CT the R signaled the options to the PB and immediately
    after he heard thunder. The game was suspended immediately. After multiple
lightning and thunder suspensions the teams decided to suspend the game until
Saturday night. The Crew went back on Saturday and brought the captains to
midfield 20 minutes prior to KO and asked each team if they wanted to change
their options. They did NOT re-toss.
