---
layout: post
title:  "2016 Quiz 2 - Rules Geek"
date:   2016-09-02
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2016/2016_quiz_1_rules_geek.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. K, 4/10 @ K’s 20 YL. K1’s punt is blocked by R2 and recovered by K2 @ K’s 14
   YL. K2 advances the ball to K’s 28 YL. R signals first down for K since R2
touched the kicked ball.

2. K, 4/14 @ K’s 40 YL. K1 brings his “kicking” ball in and hands it to the U.
   The U switches the balls.

3. K, 4/10 @ K’s 35 YL. K1’s punt is away, K2 attempts to down the punt,
   touching the grounded ball @ R’s 30 YL. The ball is rolling. R1 picks up the
ball and runs 15 yards where he fumbles the ball @ R’s 45 YL where K2 recovers.
The R immediately signals 1/10 for K @ R’s 45 YL.

4. K, 4/13 @ K’s 30 YL. K1’s punt is low and strikes K2 in the helmet @ K’s 32
   YL. The ball continues in flight to K’s 48 YL where it’s downed by K3. The R
gives R the option of taking the ball @ K’s 32 YL or taking the result of the
play.

5. K, 4/10 @ R’s 10 YL. K attempts a FG. K1 (holder) muffs the snap & raises his
   knee off the ground to retrieve the ball. K1 retrieves the ball and goes back
down on a knee @ R’s 18 YL. K2’s kicks the ball, the kick is signaled good.

6. K, 4/15 @ K’s 20 YL. K1’s punt is short & grounded at K’s 28 YL. The kicked
   ball is muffed by R1 and rolls back to K’s 18 YL. K2 picks up the ball and
advances for a touchdown.

7. K, 3/17 @ K’s 10 YL. K1’s punt is blocked. The ball is recovered by K2 and R1
   simultaneously @ K’s 5 YL. The R signals 4th down for K at K’s 5 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A78 holds B65. U throws a flag on A78 and signals holding (S42) to the R,
   then yells out to the LJ “A78 holding”.

9. In a jr. high game the R tells the crew “I will take the PC today.”

## OHSAA Regulations
10. There is a safety in a jr. high game. The crew places the ball at the 50 YL
    for the next set up downs.
