---
layout: post
title:  "2016 Quiz 3 - Your Call"
date:   2016-09-16
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2016/2016_week_3_quiz.pdf).

## Rules
1. During the down, player A4 is noticed to have a clear tooth and mouth
   protector that is covering the upper, front teeth only. The U drops a flag
for illegal equipment.

2. A has lined­up for a FG attempt. A’s linemen have been shifting from a
   two­point stance to a three­point stance prior to the snap the entire game.
After shifting to their three­point stance for this attempt B 60 lineman feints
a charge which causes A lineman 59 and 69 to start before the snap. Would we
have a false start on A or a unsportsmanlike foul on B?

3. B1 intercepts A1's pass at B's 4 YL and retreats (no momentum ruling) to B's
   EZ where B1 is grabbed by the face mask by A2 who twists the mask. B1 then
fumbles while in the EZ and the ball rolls back into the field of play and then
goes OOB at B's 2 YL.

Note on play 3: Even though the foul is declined the Flagrant Foul & DQ can not
be declined.

4. During the last timed down of the 4th period, A scores a TD & the score is
   nowA 13–B14. RT21 roughs the kicker/holder during K’s successful Try­ Kick.

5. During the last timed down of the first half, A1 retreats into his own EZ to
   attempt a pass, but he is downed there. During the down there is holding in
the EZ by A2.

6. A, 3/4 @ A’s 20YL. A7 runs with the ball to the A 29 YL where B43 attempts to
   tackle A7. A7 extends his left hand and grasps and pulls the facemask of
B43’s helmet which comes completely off. B43 completes the tackle. Must B43
leave the game for one play?

7. A, 3/G @ B’s 3 YL. A19 takes the snap, runs to his right and fumbles after
   being hit by several B players at the B 2 YL. The FB rolls into the B EZ and
is recovered by B51 who is tackled in the EZ. After B51 recovers the ball, but
before he is tackled, B77 holds A60 at the B 6 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. During the CT prior to the game, the VT wins the toss and chooses to defer to
   the second half. The R turns to the Press Box and signals that the VT will
defer. Before the R can ask the HT what their choice will be, the VT captain
asks to change his choice.

9. A, 4/7@ B’s 20 YL. A decides to attempt a FG. The attempt is (a) faked or (b)
   the attempt is kicked but short of the GL. The BJ and U should both go the GL
in both (a) and (b)?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. The VT school band plays too long which delays the start of the second half.
    Both teams are ready to play except a band being on the field.
