---
layout: post
title:  "2016 Quiz 9 - Your Call"
date:   2016-10-28
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2016/2016_week_9_quiz.pdf).

## Rules
1. A, 1/10 @ B 40 YL. A1 runs OOB at B’s 35YL. After A1 is OOB, B1 charges into
   A1, knocking him to the ground. A2 retaliates by shoving B1. B1 then swears
at A2. A’s coach swears at the LJ after the R has given his signals and the U
begins marking off the enforcement.

2. A, 4/8 @ A 14 YL. B88 blocks the punt and the ball rolls into the EZ. B14
   attempts to secure the ball in the EZ but he is touching the SL when he
finally controls the football. Touchdown, safety or touchback?

3. With less than 2 minutes remaining in the game the RT is trailing by 9 points
   as K prepares to punt from its 4 YL. During the kick, K2 holds R4 in the EZ.
R5 returns the punt for a TD.

4. A. 4/9 @ B 31 YL. A2’s FG attempt strikes the ground at the B 4 YL and
   rebounds high into the air. B14, who was waiting at the B 10 YL, turns, runs,
and leaps to possess the ball in the air at the B 1 YL. B14's momentum carries
him into the EZ where he lands and then runs with the ball to the A 27 YL before
he is tackled.

5. A. 2/10 @ A 30 YL. QB A6 takes the long snap, runs to his right and throws a
   forward pass which is caught by eligible A41 at the A 28 YL. A41 is
immediately tackled at that spot. After A6 released the ball B51 was flagged for
roughing the passer. Outcome?

6. A, 2/10 @ B 22 YL. QB A2 drops back to pass. He fumbles the ball at the B 27
   YL. B50 recovers the fumble and advances to the A 48 YL where he is tackled.
After B50 recovered the fumble and before the end of the play four B substitutes
stepped into the field at the 50 YL and cheered, but they did not move to
participate in the play nor hinder any A players. Possession, down and distance?

7. K scores and lines up for the Try in scrimmage kick formation. K15 kicks the
   ball but it is partially blocked by RT 88. The ball is rolling at the RT’s 3
YL when K19 rushes forward, recovers the ball and runs the ball into the RT EZ.
Two-point conversion?

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. Prior to the game, game management informs the R that they will provide a
   microphone for him to use during the game. As the R prepares for the game he
realizes that the HT PB can control what is heard in the stadium from that
microphone. HTgame management informs the R that he must use the microphone and
that the R used that microphone last week.

9. On the first KO of the game K10’s kick is received at the RT 18 YL and
   returned to the RT 26 YL. On the next KO by this team the HL and LJ take
their IP’s at the RT 10YL. For the next KO by this team what is the IP for the
HL and LJ if they can’t agree whether to be at the GL or the RT 10YL?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Late in 2Q, with the VT attempting to score, it is noted by the BJ that the
    GC doesn’t stop for approximately 10 seconds. The Crew corrects the GC and
the quarter continues. Two additional times in the 2Q it is noted by the Crew
that the GC is not being stopped or started as directed by the Crew.
