---
layout: post
title:  "2016 Quiz 1 - Your Call"
date:   2016-08-26
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2016/2016_week_1_quiz.pdf).

## Rules
1. K is preparing to kickoff for the second half. K has 7 players to one side of
   the kicker and 3 players on the other. The Referee marks the ball ready for
play and the BJ immediately throws the flag, stops the play and calls
encroachment on team K.

2. K1 attempts an onside kick from his own 40, but instead of causing the ball
   to strike the ground and bounce, he pops it up into the air. R1 signals for a
fair catch while the kick is in flight and catches the ball before it crosses
R's free kick line.

3. K's first half kickoff is bouncing on the ground in the neutral zone where
   R16 and K79 are engaged in blocking one another legally. K2 muffs the ball
first in the NZ, and the ball then touches R16 on the leg. K3 recovers the ball.

4. A free kick by team K is touched by R15 on his 15 YL line and then it
   contacts a game official who is straddling the sideline at the 5 YL. R33
picks up the football and runs to the R 40 yard line.

5. K punts from midfield. R17 gives a fair catch signal at the RT's 10 YL. R17
   muffs the catch and the ball bounces toward R's EZ. R2 recovers at the 1 YL
and his momentum takes him into the EZ where he is tackled.

6. K is preparing to kickoff and has 5 players on one side of Kicker K33 and 5
   players on the other side. All 11 players of K are within 5 yards of their
free kick line. After the ready­for­play from the R, K33 runs toward the
football as though he/she will kick but slows down and teammate K32 which is
immediately to his/her right actually kicks the football.

7. During a scrimmage kick which goes beyond the expanded neutral zone, R1 gives
   a fair catch signal. He muffs the kick into the air, where: (a) K2 pushes R1
in an attempt to reach the ball; or (b) K3 tackles R1 following the muff,
preventing R1 from catching the kick.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. After a valid fair catch the BJ drops his/her bean bag to mark the spot of
   the fair catch.

9. A advances the football beyond the line­to­gain thus making the first down.
   From the top of the field numbers the HL instructs the chain crew to move the
chains to his spot.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. In a week #2 football game and during a long pass by A the ball hits a drone
    and falls into the arms of a B player who is immediately tackled.
