---
layout: post
title:  "2016 Quiz - Week 8"
date:   2016-10-19
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2016/2016_week_8_quiz.pdf).

## Rules
1.A, 2/10 @ B’s 10 YL. A1 fumbles the ball @ B’s 7 YL. The ball is recovered by
A2 @ B‘s 4YL and advanced for a TD. The R states the ball was dead where A1 lost
possession and only A1 can recover and advance his own fumble.

2. K, 4/10 @ K’s 30 YL. K1’s punt is short. R1 muffs the ball at K’s 36 YL and
   it bounces back toward the NZ. K2 picks up the ball @ K’s 32 YL and advances
the ball and is downed @ K’s 42 YL. The R signals 1/10 for K @ A’s 42 YL.

3. 25 minutes prior to a Varsity game an official is smoking on the SL near the
   HT bench.

4. A, 2/10 @ B’s 30 YL. Eligible A1 blocks B1 @ B’s 25 YL. Eligible A2 catches a
   forward pass @ B’s 17 YL. A1’s block on B1 is 15 yards across the field from
where A2 caught the forward pass.

5. KO. K1, the kicker, is positioned on the K 30 YL. He approaches the ball.
   However, K2 who is positioned on the K 36 YL kicks the ball. The onside kick
is recovered by the RT at the RT 45 YL. The R signals COP, RT’s ball, 1/10 at
RT’s 45 YL.

6. A, 2/5 @ A’s 40 YL. B1 is standing within 1 yard of the LOS before the snap.
   B1 stomps his foot abruptly and A1 flinches. The LJ flags A1 for a false
start.

7. A, 4/G @ B’s 8 YL. B1 intercepts A1’s pass in B’s EZ. B1 attempts to run the
   ball out of the EZ into the field of play. B1 runs to the opposite side of
the EZ where he is downed in the EZ. The BJ, LJ and HL signal safety.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. The score is A18 – B12. The A HC informs the officials his team is taking a
   knee. The Crew pinches in and informs all players that A is taking a knee and
nothing rough.

9. During a running play the LJ holds his position on the LOS as the ball
   carrier runs to his side of the field into the SZ.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. An A assistant coach curses at an official and receives his 2nd UNS foul on
    the SL. The LJ disqualifies A’s HC.
