---
layout: post
title:  "2016 Quiz 4 - Rules Geek"
date:   2016-09-22
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

  This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau
Rugg and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2016/2016_week_4_quiz.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 3/3 @ B’s 15 YL. Prior to the snap B is flagged for illegal substitution
   for having 12 players on the field. A second later A1 is flagged for UNS for
cursing an opposing player. The R signals both fouls and announces these DB
fouls will offset.

2.K, 4/10 @ K’s35 YL. K1’s punt is high; R1 waves his hand at his waist for a
fair catch at R’s 30YL. The BJ (or U in 4 man) throws his flag. After R1 catches
the ball @ R’s 25 YL the BJ sounds his whistle. R1 then takes off running. The
BJ throws a second flag for delay of game. The R signals both invalid fair catch
and delay of game on R1. The R explains to the HC that he can only choose one of
the live ball fouls.

3. A, 3/15 @ B’s 40 YL. A1 throws the ball away into the stands as time expires
   in the 4Q. The R and HL confer and decide no receiver was in the area. The R
drops a flag at the spot where A1 released the ball. The R signals and announces
intentional grounding on A1 and the period will be extended for one untimed
down.

4. A, 3/10 @ B’s 15 YL. A1’s forward pass is tipped by B1. Ineligible A2 catches
   the pass beyond the NZ and advances for a TD. The U throws a flag on A2 for
illegal touching. The R signals illegal touching and loss of down.

5. K, 4/10 @ K’s 45 YL. K1’s punt is high and deep. R1 jumps to catch the punt
   and it hits him on top of his helmet at R’s 10 YL and rolls toward R’s GL. R1
attempts to pick up the ball and muffs the ball into R’s EZ. The ball rolls
across R’s GL. K3 recovers the ball in R’s EZ. The BJ signals TD for K.

6. A, 2/4 @ B’s 45 YL. B has a player come on to the field as a substitute when
   the R sounds the RFP. As the BJ (U in 4 man) raises his hand for the final 5
seconds of the PC he counts B and realizes B still has 12 players on the field.
The BJ throws a flag for illegal substitution on B. The R explains to the BJ
that team B has until the snap to have only 11 players on the field.

7. A, 2/1 @ B’s 4 YL. B2 enters the field and is running to get on his team’s
   side of the NZ. B2 is at B’s 10 YL when A snaps the ball. The LJ sounds his
whistle and signals encroachment on B2.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. During a run play the HL tries to keep up with a ball carrier as the play
   comes toward his SZ.

9. During a pass play the HL throws a flag when he realizes he has no receiver
   in his area then signals intentional grounding to the R.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. An official purchases and wears a pair of black shorts with a 1” white
    stripe on the sides.
