---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Quiz 6 - Rules Geek"
date:   2017-10-21
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2017/2017-quiz-6.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 2/10 @ A’s 2 YL. A is in shotgun formation. A12’s forward pass is tipped
   by B55 in A’s EZ. A12 catches the tipped ball and throws a second forward
pass while still in A’s EZ. The second forward is intercepted. B25 who runs 5
yards and fumbles the ball and A30 recovers the fumble.

2. B50 runs OOB on the VT SL during a live ball and slips and falls. Runner A32
   runs near the VT SL and B50 reaches out into the field of play and grabs his
foot which makes A32 fall to the ground.

3. K, 4/4 @ K’s 21 YL. R20 is flagged for running into the kicker (K5). After
   the ball is dead K5 gets up and pushes R20 and K5 is flagged for a DB
Personal Foul. R signals these fouls offset and states the down will be
replayed.

4. A, 3/10 @ B’s 40 YL. Tie varsity game with: 08 remaining in 4Q. A12’s Hail
   Mary deep pass is intercepted by B20. B20 runs 91 yards for a TD. During the
return B45 is flagged for holding @ A’s 30 YL. During the return time expires on
the GC. A accepts the holding penalty. R signals the 4Q is over and the score by
B does not count. Time expired and the R states the penalty will be enforced on
the succeeding spot of the 1st OT.

5. A, 3/10 @ B’s 20 YL. : 02 remain in the 2Q. A10 scrambles and runs to B’s 18
   YL and throws a forward pass to A80 in B’s EZ. A10 is flagged for an illegal
forward pass. The R signals/announces the penalty and that there will be an
untimed down since the penalty occurred during the last timed down of the 2Q.

6. A, 3/10 @ B’s 30 YL. : 05 remain in the 4Q. B is leading by 3 points. A14
   runs to B’s 4 YL where he’s hit and fumbles the ball, B42 recovers the fumble
at B’s 2 YL. While the ball was loose the LJ inadvertently blew his whistle. The
R signals the game is over since time expired during the last timed down.

7. To start the 3Q K10 FK’s from K’s 40 YL. Immediately after the kick is
   airborne, R56 comes in and blocks K10 and knocks him to the ground @ K’s 43
YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. The LJ and HL ask the U to come outside the HM’s to retrieve the football due
   to the fact he is staying inside the HM. The U states that his position is
not supposed to go outside the HM’s.

9. A, 2/7 @ B’s 20 YL. A12 is tackled at B’s 14 YL. The HL looks back to see how
   close they are and B40 punches A21. The HL did not see the punch as he was
looking over his shoulder to see if A12 met the LTG.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Prior to the start of the 2nd half the VT HC informs the R their coaching
    headset phones are not working and that the HT must not wear theirs as this
give the HT a direct advantage.
