---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Quiz 8 - Rules Geek"
date:   2017-10-21
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2017/2017-quiz-8.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. A, 4/5 @ B’s 25 YL. A10 is tackled at the B’s 26 YL, short of the LTG. After
   A10 is tackled and the ball is dead, B1 piles on. After the penalty is
enforced the R signals 1/10 for A @ B’s 13 YL.

2. The U has examined and approved the footballs provided by each team prior to
   the game. During the game, the weather condition changes for the worse. The
HT requests to have additional footballs approved during the halftime break for
use throughout the remainder of the game.

3. B30 is guilty of running into kicker A15 during an unsuccessful Try. A's HC
   wants to accept the penalty and replay the down, but wishes to decline the
distance penalty because A15 is more comfortable kicking from the previous
distance. The R informs A’s HC he cannot decline the distance if he accepts
penalty.

4. K, 4/5 @ K’s 5 YL. K10's punt is muffed in flight beyond the NZ by R45 and
   rebounds into K's end zone where it’s recovered by K20. K20 is tackled in his
EZ. The R signals a TB.

5. A, 1/10 @ A’s 20 YL. Snapper A60 takes his position over the ball at A’s 20
   YL and places one or both hands on the ball. The RFP signal is given and as
A60 begins his motion to snap the ball, B55 swipes at the ball knocking it out
of A60's hands before he has released the ball for the snap. B55 falls on the
ball at A’s 18 YL. The R signals 1/10 for B.

6. A, 1/G @ B’s 5 YL. B34 intercepts A10's forward pass in B's EZ. B34
   immediately throws a legal BWP to B22. B22 muffs the BWP and it goes OOB
across the SL behind B's GL. The LJ signals a safety.

7.
A,4/G@B’s2YL.RunnerA25ispushedattheLOSinthebackbyA32inanefforttogetA25intotheEZ.B’sHCtells
the R this is illegal and the R states it’s not illegal.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. On a FK that’s kicked close to R’s GL between the LJ & R, R10 catches the FK
   on the 1/2 YL. The R winds the GC and the HL sounds his whistle and signals a
TB.

9. A, 2/7 @ B’s 40 YL. A40 runs OOB @ B’s 39 YL. The R and BJ go into B’s team
   box.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. As the officials are walking onto the field before the game there is
    lightning and thunder. The AD asks the officials if there will be a 30
minute delay. The officials tell the AD they do not take authority for the
contest until the first RFP whistle and that any delay is at his discretion.
