---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Quiz 1 - Rules Geek"
date:   2017-09-01
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2017/2017-Rules-Geek-1.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. To start the game the BJ hands the ball to K1. K1 places the ball on the tee
   for the kickoff on the home side HM on K’s 40 YL. The BJ runs to his position
and just before he raises his hand to the R, K’s HC tells K1 to move the ball to
the other side of the field.

2. K1 kicks off from their 40 YL and the kicked ball goes OOB untouched at the
   RT’s 40YL. The LJ throws his flag. The R gives the RT the option of a 5 yard
penalty and have K re-kick or to take the ball 25 yards from the previous spot
-- RT’s 35 YL).

3. K1’s attempts an onside kick. R1 comes in and blocks K2 into the kicked ball
   at K’s 48 YL. The ball is recovered by R2 at R’s 48 YL. The R signals first
touching by K at K’s 48 YL and gives the RT the option of taking the ball at K’s
48 YL.

4. K1’s free kick is airborne and near the SL at R’s 29 YL. R1 catches the
   kicked ball near the SL with one of his feet OOB. The R signals OOB on the RT
and gives the RT the ball at RT’s 29 YL.

5. K1’s free kick is grounded and muffed by R2 @ R’s 18 YL. K2 recovers the muff
   and advances it for a TD.

6. After an enforced penalty, K1 is free kicking from their 20 YL. Ten seconds
   remain in the 4Q with K leading by 2 points. K1 falls as he kicks the FB
which causes the kick to be high and short. R1 signals fair catch at K’s 37 YL.
R2 catches the kicked ball. K’s HC informs the officials he wants to attempt a
free kick after fair catch. The R informs the HC he has the right to choose
this.

7. R1 catches K1’s free kick at R’s 45 YL. He then runs 4 yards, stops, and
   gives a fair catch signal with his hand high above his head. He realizes the
K players are slowing and he takes off running. The BJ blows the play dead as he
throws his flag. The BJ throws a flag and informs the R the penalty is for an
invalid fair catch signal and the crew enforces this as a PSK foul at R’s 45 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. After a play that ended near the SL the U goes to the nearest HM and waits
   for the R/BJ to shuttle the FB into him/her.

9. After arriving a TV crew comes in the locker room and states they would like
   the R to wear a microphone that is only heard by the viewing audience. The R
is already wearing a stadium microphone. The R agrees to use the 2 microphones.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Prior to a freshmen game the HC tells the Crew that he and the VT HC have
    agreed to play 8 minute quarters during the game. The Crew tells them
freshmen games are required to be 10 minutes.
