---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Quiz 4 - Rules Geek"
date:   2017-10-13
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Rules Geek is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2017/2017-quiz-4.pdf).

## NFHS Rules
1. :12 remaining in the 4Q. B is leading by 2 points. Runner A10 runs OOB. The
   LJ asks B’s HC if he wants to start the GC on the RFP.

2. A, 3/10 @ B’s 40 YL. On a scrimmage play A1 changes direction and A81
   approaches B51. B51 turns and see’s A81 coming. A81 lowers his shoulder and
blocks B51, the block on A81 knocking him to the ground. The U throws his flag
for an blindside block.

3. K, 4/10 @ K’s 30 YL. After K3’s punt R21 runs onto the field. He doesn’t
   realize he is the RT’s 12th man on the field. R21 blocks K43. R80 catches the
punt @ RT’s 30 YL and returns it to K’s 10 YL. The HL throws a flag for illegal
participation on R21. The Crew enforces this as a loose ball foul from the
previous spot and gives K a 1st down and awards K a new series @ K’s 45 YL.

4. A, 3/10 @ B’s 25 YL. After A10 runs OOB he is hit by B40. A10 immediately
   pushes B40. B31 then curses at A10. The HL throws flags for the dead ball DB
late hit on B40 and the DB foul on A10. The BJ throws a flag for UNS on B31. The
Crew offsets all DB fouls.

5. A, 3/20 @ B’s 40 YL. A14’s pass is airborne. Before the R completes yelling
   “Balls Away” B55 hits A14 in the head with the crown of his helmet. A80
catches the pass at B’s 34 YL and is then downed at B’s 30 YL. The R throws a
flag for roughing the passer. The Crew enforces the penalty from the previous
spot, resulting in B, 3/5 @ B’s 25 YL.

6. After an enforced penalty, K1 is free kicking (KO) from K’s 20 YL. :10 remain
   in the 4Q with K leading by 2 points. K1 falls as he kicks the ball which
causes the kick to be high and short. R1 signals fair catch at K’s 37 YL. R2
catches the kicked ball. K’s HC informs the officials he wants to attempt a free
kick after fair catch. The R informs the HC he has the right to choose this.

7. A, 3/10 @ A’s 20 YL. A16 throws an interception to B35 @ A’s 40 YL. B35 runs
   for a TD. Prior to the interception A67 holds B75. After the interception and
before B35 crosses A’s GL. B59 is flagged for an illegal block in the back @ A’s
30 YL. The Crew offsets the 2 live ball fouls and replays the down.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. On a pass play where the QB drops back and throws a forward pass the U moves
   forward to the LOS.

9. Host management informs the Crew that both teams will use a common
   entrance/exit to the field. The Crew states that this is host management’s
responsibility to deal with the teams.

## OHSAA Regulations
10. On the last timed down of the 4Q A scores a TD and makes the score B21-A20.
    On the successful Try-Kick for 1 point B is flagged for UNS. The R informs K
they cannot carry over the penalty to OT.
