---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Quiz 3 - Your Call"
date:   2017-09-10
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2017/2017-Your-Call-Quiz-3.pdf).

## Rules
1. A1 throws a forward pass from his own 40 YL. B14 intercepts on his 8 YL and
   circles back into his EZ. While B1 is in the EZ, the covering official
inadvertently sounds his whistle.

2. A1 throws a forward pass from his own 40 YL. B14 intercepts the ball 4 yards
   deep in his EZ. While B1 is attempting to run out of his EZ, the covering
official inadvertently sounds his whistle.

3. A1 or B1 is in a position to catch or intercept a forward pass beyond the NZ.
   An opponent, who is in the vicinity, turns his back to the ball. The opponent
directs his attention to A1 or B1 and waves his arms to block the vision of the
potential receiver or interceptor but does not make contact.

4. A14 throws a legal forward pass from his 35 YL. As A8 prepares to catch the
   pass, B15 interferes (DPI) with his attempt to catch the pass. A8 catches the
pass and is immediately downed at the B40 YL. The officials conference and
decide since the pass was completed that the 15 YD penalty for DPI will be
enforced from the B40 (tack on).

5. A1 scores a TD. After the score, B commits a (a) dead-ball, (b)
   unsportsmanlike or (c) non-player foul prior to the initial RFP on the Try.

6. 4th and 9 for team A. A’s HC decides to punt and sends in A15 to punt and A21
   to replace the snapper A55, leaving four A players numbered 50-79 on the LOS.
A15 lines up 8 yards behind A21 and punts the ball to the B45 YL. The U throws a
flag for an illegal numbering foul against A.

7. Snapper A50 takes his position over the ball and places one or both hands on
   the ball. The RFP signal is given and as A1 begins the motion to snap the
ball, B66 swipes at the ball attempting to dislodge it from the snapper,
touching the snapper’s hand or the ball prior to the snapper releasing the ball
for the snap.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. During TRY-KICK the R shouldn’t signal Good or NO Good to the PB.

9. The kick try by the KT is low as it nears the cross bar. Once the ball has
   passed the upright the BJ looks to the U to determine if the Try went over or
under the cross bar. Correct?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. After having to make a third correction to the PC, the R orders the PC’s
    turned off. Correct?
