---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Quiz 1 - Your Call"
date:   2017-08-21
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2017/Quiz-1.pdf).

## Rules
1. K, 3/10 @ R 32 YL. 17 seconds remain in the game. The score is tied. K
   decides to attempt a FG. The FG attempt is blocked behind the LOS, and the
ball never crosses the LOS. A44 recovers the blocked kick on the ground behind
the LOS with 5 seconds remaining. The GC then expires. A’s HC immediately tells
the officials that the GC should have stopped when the ball was recovered by
A44, thinking he’d have time for another FG attempt. Put 5 seconds back on?

2. K, 4/10 @ R 40 YL, K lines up in a scrimmage kick formation. K1 punts the
   ball to R1 who is standing on his 3 yard line. R1 muffs the punt. As the ball
is bouncing away from R's EZ, R2 muffs the ball causing it to go into his own EZ
where K2 falls on the ball.

3. K, 4/10 @ K’s 30 YL. K10’s short punt is muffed by R15 at K’s 38 YL. The
   loose ball rolls back behind the NZ and is recovered by K4 at K’s 27 YL.
Possession and down?

4. K5’s punt beyond the NZ hits the ground. Then the ball bounces high into the
   air. R14 gives a valid fair catch signal before the punt hits the ground the
first time. K3 slightly bumps R14 before R14 recovers the punt. Did K commit
Kick catching interference (KCI)?

5. K, 4/21 @ K29 YL. K88 is running down the field under a punt when the ball,
   in flight, hits him on the helmet at the R 40 YL. The ball then travels OOB
at the R45 YL. No R player was in position to be able to get to the ball and
catch it. Kick Catching Interference? First Touching? Both?

6. What options does the RT have if a K player commits Kick Catching
   Interference on a scrimmage kick?

7. K, 3/10 @ K’s 12 YL. K1’s punt is blocked and recovered on K’s 8 YL,
   simultaneously by K15 and R88. What is result of the play?

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. The BJ is preparing for a punt and takes his/her IP 5 YDS deeper than the two
   split receivers.

9. After a Try-Kick the R should jog toward the players?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Prior to the game, the PC operator tells the BJ that one of the PC’s isn’t
    working but since the teams switch ends at the quarters it should be
acceptable.
