---
layout: post
title:  "2017 Quiz 5 - Your Call"
date:   2017-10-13
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Your Call is prepared by Dave Ramsey in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2017/2017-quiz-5.pdf).

## Rules
1. A, 1st & 10 @ A’s 35 YL. Quarterback A10 runs to the A’s 38 YL then retreats
   back to the A 33 YL. He throws a pass that is caught by eligible A88 at the A
48 YL. Any penalty here?

2. QB A22 takes the snap and drops back to pass. Under a heavy rush he scrambles
   toward the LOS. His passing arm and one of his feet are beyond the NZ when a
forward pass is thrown to eligible A89. Any fouls?

3. A1 throws a legal forward pass to A5, who is behind the LOS and who then
   throws another forward pass to A11, who advances the ball for a first down.

4. At the snap, interior lineman A66 moves 3 yards downfield and finding no one
   to block, retreats behind the NZ and blocks for A2 who eventually throws a
forward pass which crosses the neutral zone.

5. During a forward pass play in which the ball crosses the neutral zone, A88,
   an ineligible receiver (covered up), is illegally downfield and B44 illegally
contacts him with an elbow (personal foul).

6. Quarterback A14 drops back and throws a forward pass toward the SL to A25 who
   is behind the NZ. B1 blocks A25 behind the line prior to A25 touching the
ball.

7. A11 or B11 is in a position to catch or intercept a forward pass beyond the
   NZ. An opponent, who is in the vicinity, turns his back to the ball. The
opponent directs his attention to A11 or B11 and waves his arms to block the
vision of the potential receiver or interceptor but does not make contact.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A, 3rd & 3 @ B’s 5 YL. Since the LOS is inside the + 10 YL, how should the HL
   and LJ react to a run between the tackles toward the GL?

9. A, 2nd & 9 @ A’s 40 YL. Half back A10 receives a handoff and sweeps toward
   the HL’s SZ/SL. What should be the mechanic for the HL and the LJ?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. Prior to the start of a varsity game the VT brings their footballs to the
    official’s locker room for approval. The U finds the footballs meet all Rule
1-3 requirements but they feel a little “ tacky “. No foreign substance is
suspected or found on these footballs. Can the R approve the footballs?
