---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 7 - Black and White"
date:   2018-10-01
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Blank and White quiz is prepared by Larry Clemmons in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-7.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. Actual play this year. After a safety, K is free kicking from K’s 20 YL. K’s
punt goes out of bounds at R’s 42 YL. The officials penalize K five yards from
R’s 42 YL, making it A, 1/10 at A’s 47 YL.

2. Actual play this year. On fourth down, K punts the ball. R22 is returning the
   ball (no
PSK) when R66 blocks below the waist and then K23 commits a face mask penalty
against R22. After the play is over, R35 commits a dead ball foul. The Crew
offsets the two live ball fouls and then enforces the dead ball foul at the
previous spot, giving K a first down.

3. Friday’s forecast indicates rain, thunder, and lightning. An AD contacts the
   R for their game asking for guidelines as to when a football game is
considered an official game, or postponed and restarted.

4. A, 3/7 at A’s 40 YL. A9 (a) rolls out and goes beyond the LOS and then
   retreats behind the LOS and throws a forward pass, or (b) hands off to back
A32 who runs beyond the LOS and then throws a backward pass to A9, who then
throws a forward pass to A86.

5. A, 1/10 at B’s 38 YL. A2 takes the snap and runs to his right. A2 stops and
   turns to his left and throws a backward pass to A37 about 15 yards from A2.
After A2 throws the pass he is hit by B54 and knocked to the ground. A37 runs
the ball to B’s 35 YL. The HC of A confronts the HL and wants B penalized for
RTP.

6. A, 2/5 at B’s 20 YL. A24 is running at B’s 5 YL when B27 charges from behind
   and knocks the ball from A24’s hands. The ball rolls into the pylon.

7. A, 3/7 at B’s 35 YL. A7 throws a legal FP that is intercepted by B18 at B’6
   YL. B18’s momentum carries him to B’s 2 YL where he is hit by A87. B18
fumbles the football as a result of the contact and the ball bounces once
inbounds and then strikes a pylon.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. An official, who is filling in on another Crew, is informed at half time that
   they don’t walk captains out for second half options.

9. A scores a TD with 1:18 seconds left in the game, making the score, A-13,
   B-14. A decides to go for a 2 point Try. The LJ is on the SL at the 3 YL. A
runs a sweep to the LJ’s side and the runner dives for the pylon. The LJ remains
on the SL at the 3 YL, turns, and signals TD.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. The BJ/LJ go to the HT HC and the U/HL go to the VT HC and notify the
    coaches with a 4 minute warning left in halftime. They then escort the teams
back onto the field for the second half.
