---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 3 - Whistle Quiz"
date:   2018-09-08
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s Whistle quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-3.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. A 3/6 on B’s 40 YL. A1 advances to B’s 32 YL where B1 grabs his face mask
   with a twist as he attempts to tackle A1. A1 fumbles during the tackle and B2
recovers and advances to A’s 45 YL.

2. A 3/6 on B’s 40 YL. A1 advances to B’s 32 YL where B1 grabs his face mask
   with a twist as he attempts to tackle A1. A1 realizes he can’t get away so he
legally hands the ball backward to A12 who then advances to B’s 24 YL where he
is tackled.

3. K is lined up for an obvious on-side kick. K1’s kick hits K44 on the leg at
   K’s 42 YL then proceeds to roll OOB untouched by R at K’s 49 YL.

4. A 4/8 on B’s 45 YL, 19 secs remain on the GC. A12 completes a 20 YD pass to
   A81, and as a result, A12 hurries his shotgun/spread team to line-up for a
spike to stop the GC. A12 takes the snap with 4 secs from the shotgun and throws
the ball forward to the ground immediately.

5. K 4/12 on K’s 35 YL. K’s scrimmage kick is caught by R12 who returns the kick
   12 YDS up field where he is hit, fumbles, and K45 recovers the fumble. As a
result K, 1/10. When will the GC start next?

6. A 3/8 on A’s 35 YL. A12’s pass is intercepted by B32 at B’s 45 YL. B32
   returns the interception up field where he is hit, fumbles and A45 recovers
the fumble. As a result A, 1/10, on A45. When will the GC start next?

7. K 4/12 on K’s 35 YL. R12 positions himself on R’s 40 YL to catch the punt.
   K81 positions himself just short of 2 YDS from R12 to make a tackle as soon
as the kick is caught. As the kick comes down it hits K81 on the shoulder
causing the ball to bounce to R44 who gains possession and returns the ball to
the 50 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. A, 3/8 @ A’s 4 YL, QB A12 pitches back to RB A32 who attempts to sweep around
   the right side of the field. He is contacted by B55 at the 1 YL breaking the
tackle by running deeper in the backfield. After being tackled at the GL the R
runs up to the pile and signals safety.

9. After a running play the U hustled to the DB spot, retrieved the ball,
   hustled back to the nearest hash mark, spotted the ball off the backside
wing, then stood over the ball to protect the spot until the center arrived from
the team huddle.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. Just before a scheduled freshman game both head coaches approached the
    officials and informed that both teams have kickers who might have to be the
kicker this Friday night so they want them to have KO’s in the first half
tonight to give them a chance for some practice.
