---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 4 - Black and White"
date:   2018-09-09
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Blank and White quiz is prepared by Larry Clemmons in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-4.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. Actual play this year. A, 3/7 on A’s 45 YL. A throws a pass that is
   incomplete. During the play the HL throws his flag for the A HC being in the
restricted area. No contact, but it is the second sideline noncontact
interference. The R enforces the foul as a 5 yard penalty and lets A replay the
down. A runs 5 plays during this series.

2. Actual play this year. A22 is running for a TD. During the run, the HL makes
   contact with one of B’s coaches in the restricted area. As A22 continues to
run, the LJ throws his flag for the second noncontact interference call against
A’s coaching staff. How are the fouls administered?

3. Actual play this year. K, 4/12 on K’s 6 YL. K1 punts the ball and K66 holds
   in K’s EZ. The kick is short and R10 makes a FC at K’s 15 YL. RT is behind by
5 points with less than 2 minutes left in the game. What are the RT’s options?

4. There is less than 2 minutes left in the game. A16 is tackled inbounds by
   B36. After the play, B 78 commits a late hit on A16. A’s HC requests the GC
start on the snap. Legal?

5. A, 4/12 at B’s 45 YL with 14 seconds remaining in the 2Q. A6 drops back to
   pass, but then decides to run. At B’s 30 YL he throws a forward pass to A89
in B’s EZ. Time expires during the play.

6. A26 fumbles at B’s 4 YL and the ball rolls into the EZ. B66 bats the ball
   over the end line to prevent the opponent from recovering it.

7. A10 throws a screen pass to A26 behind the LOS. A66 and A78 have gone
   downfield on the play. The ball goes off the hands of A26 and crosses the LOS
where it is caught by A88 for a first down.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. The BJ and Wings decide to split each team’s game balls so they have one on
   each team’s own both sidelines.

9. On a close, but short, play for a first down, the LJ stops the GC and tells
   the R to take a look. The R looks, and agrees it’s short, but since the GC is
stopped, the R will show courtesy to the coaches by bringing out the chains.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. While checking the game balls in the locker room before the game, the Crew
    discovers the visitors’ game balls have a “tacky” feel to them. They don’t
find any residue on the ball so they approve them.
