---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 1 - Black and White"
date:   2018-08-26
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This week’s Blank and White quiz is prepared by Larry Clemmons in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-1.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. K’s 45 in position to catch K’s punt. K3 interferes with R8 at K’s 45. R8 makes the
catch despite the interference and is downed at K’s 45. R chooses an awarded FC after
a 15 yard penalty. On first down, QB R7 is roughed on an incomplete FP. What is the
down, distance, game clock, and options for A? 

2. K, 4/10 on K’s 45 YL. K22 punts the ball beyond the NZ. R34 muffs the ball back behind the NZ where K7 recovers the ball and throws an incomplete pass.

3. K15 punts on fourth down. K67 blocks R25 causing him to run into K15, who loses his
balance and falls to the ground.

4. K, 4/6 at K’s 33 YL. K1 punts the ball and it is beyond the NZ when K76 commits first
touching at R’s 40 YL. R12 recovers the ball at R’s 28 YL and returns the kick to R’s 35
YL.

5. K, 4/6 at K’s 33 YL. K1 punts the ball and it is beyond the NZ when K76 commits first
touching at K’s 40 YL. R12 recovers the ball at R’s 28 YL and returns the kick to R’s 35
YL. During the return, R19 blocks below the waist at R’s 32 YL.

6. K, 4/6 from R’s 49 YL. K1 punts the ball and R16, standing at his 10 YL, lets the ball go
over his head and it bounces into the EZ. During the kick, R20 holds at (a) R’s 12 YL, or
(b) R’s 28 YL.

7. K, 4/6 from K’s 33 YL. K1 is in scrimmage kick formation. The snap goes over K1’s
head and rolls back to K’s 12 YL. K1 picks up the ball and kicks it. The ball hits at K’s
25 YL where K8 picks up the ball and runs to K’s 42 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics
8. A1 fumbles the FB beyond the LOS. The HL drops his blue bean bag to mark the spot
of the fumble.

9. The QB, who is in a “shotgun” formation on third and long, is wrapped up by a
defensive player and taken back for a large loss on the play. Who should have forward
progress on such a play?

## OHSAA Regulations
10. .A school in SW Ohio has some of their stadium speakers programmed to play music
whenever their team scores.
