---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 2 - Rules Geek"
date:   2018-08-31
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s Rules Geek quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-2-revised.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. To start the game the VT HC informs the R his place kicker is injured and
   cannot play. He informs the HC his punter will be punting the ball instead of
the usual kick off.

2. K1’s FK goes OOB @ B’s 31 YL untouched. The R informs the RT their options are to accept the 5-yard penalty at the PS and re-kick, put the ball in play 25 yards beyond the PS or decline the penalty and take the ball where it went OOB.

3. K appears to be attempting an onside kick from K’s 40 YL. All RT players are lined up the far side of the field. K1 kicks the ball into an area where no RT players are present. K2 catches K1’s ungrounded FK at Rs 49 YL. The BJ and U signal K, 1/10 for @ K’s 49 YL.

4. :04 remaining in the 4Q with the RT trailing by 2 points. On the previous
   play K was penalized for a 15-yard foul after the Try. RT chooses to have the
accepted penalty enforced from the succeeding spot, the KO. The FK is being made
from K’s 25 YL. K1’s airborne KO is short and R1 signals for a FC. However, R3
catches K1’s kick. RT’s HC states he will attempt a FK after a FC. The Crew
lines up for the attempt and informs the RT they must maintain a 10-yard
distance like a FK.

5. K1’s KO is bouncing untouched next to R1 @ R’s 3 YL. To avoid K gaining possession R1 dives and illegally bats the kick into R’s EZ and across the EL. The R throws a flag and signals illegal batting by R1.

6. Prior to a KO, K has 7 players lined up to the right side of kicker. 3 others are lined up to the left side of the kicker. As K1 kicks the ball the BJ & U both flag K for a FK infraction. K’s HC states that K1 counts as the 4 required players on one side of the ball.

7. After a short high KO, R1 signals for a FC. However, R2 catches the ball in flight. He is immediately tackled by K3 as the U blows his whistle to stop play. The U throws his flag for contacting a defenseless player.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. A, 2/10 @ B’s 40 YL. A is in a hurry up offense. A1 snaps the ball prior to R blowing the RFP. The R throws a flag for delay of game.

9. The game situation is probable that K will attempt an onside kick. The U and LJ line up 2 yards outside the SL on the 50-YL. The HL and BJ line up 2 yards outside the SL on the 40 YL.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. This is missed frequently. The HT field only has one entrance/exit to the field. Both teams will use this means of egress.
