---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 6 - Whistle Quiz"
date:   2018-09-25
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s Whistle quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-6.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. A, 3/6 @ B’s 48 YL. A22 runs a jet sweep to B’s 40 YL and runs OOB. A22,
   while OOB and after the play, pushes tackler B51. The R signals 1st down and
sets the chains, then signals DB, UNS foul on A22 and marks the penalty back to
A’s 45 YL, 1/25 for A.

2. K, 4/6 @ K’s 20 YL. K has 10 players on the field with only 6 players on the
   line of scrimmage. K’s punt is caught by R22 on R’s 45 YL and returned to K’s
42 YL where he is hit and fumbles. R53 recovers the fumble on K’s 40 YL. The
options given to the receiving team are - decline the penalty and have a 1/10 at
K’s 40 YL or, accept the penalty, 5 YDS from the previous spot, making it 4/11
for a possible re-kick.

3. A, 3/12 @ A’s 22 YL. End A2 while running a sideline pass route accidentally
   steps OOB on the 32 YL to avoid a defender, returns inbounds at A’s 35 YL. A2
continues downfield and catches the pass at A’s 38 YL where he is tackled. The
HL throws his hat down at A’s 32YL and then drops his flag at A’s 35 YL, and
after the play is dead, signals the R, illegal participation by A2. B accepts
the penalty making it A, 3/23 from A’s 11YL.

4. A, 3/12 @ A’s 22 YL. End A2 while running a sideline pass route accidentally
   steps OOB on A’s 32 YL to avoid a defender, returns inbounds at the A 35 YL.
A2 continues on and is obviously interfered with by B24 while attempting to
catch the pass. The LJ throws his hat down at A’s 32YL and then drops his flag
at A’s 35 YL during the play; the BJ throws his flag for interference. The two
officials discuss the play briefly, and signal to wave off the interference as
A2 was no longer eligible due to being penalized for illegal participation. B
accepts the penalty making it A, 3/23 @ A’s 11YL.

5. With 8:52 left in the 2Q, the scoreboard power is lost. Game administration
   says it appears a fuse has blown and it will be at least 20 minutes until it
can be fixed. Everyone agrees to finish the half with the officials keeping the
time on the field. At 3:58 left in the 2Q and with the HT sending in the punting
team, the R calls TO, stops the game, informs both sidelines of the time
remaining, blows the ready and winds the clock.

6. K, 4/8 @ B’s 24 YL. Three seconds left in the 1Q and K is in scrimmage kick
   formation for a field goal. During the successful field goal, the RT is
flagged for running into the kicker. The KT chooses to keep the points and
enforce the penalty from the succeeding spot. The R signals the penalty will be
enforced on the kick-off and gives the untimed down signal.

7. B1 intercepts A’s pass in B’s end zone. B1 tries to run the ball out of the
   end zone but is tackled by A2 prior to getting the ball out of the end zone.
During the tackle A2 grabs and twists B1’s facemask. The Crew decides the
enforcement spot of the foul is the goal line since the penalty happened in the
end zone. So, as a result, it’s B’s ball 1/10 at their 15 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. After the first OT period, the game score is still tied. The GC operator puts
   2:00 on the GC. The R starts the intermission and informs the Wings to go to
their benches and find out what their respective coaches want to do since there
is no longer a coin toss.

9. In the 2nd OT period, both teams score TD’s and kick a successful Try to
   force the game to a 3rd OT period. The R tells both Wings to inform their
respective coaches that starting with this OT period both teams will be required
to go for two points following any TD to help break the tie.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. The visiting JH/MS team, due to bus issues, shows up at 4:20pm for a game
    scheduled to start at 4:30pm. The game officials get both HC’s together to
negotiate a 4:35pm start.
