---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 8 - Rules Geek"
date:   2018-10-14
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s Rules Geek quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-8.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. A1 scores a TD on a long run. During the run A13 runs onto the field from his
   team box in celebration. The LJ throws a flag. The Crew gets together and
decides to enforce the penalty at the spot of the foul with no TD.

2. K is lined up to attempt a Try. The ball is snapped and holder K1, with his
   knee on the ground, tosses the ball to the K2 (place kicker) who runs the
ball in for 2 points.

3. A, 3/G @ B’s 2 YL. At the snap A1 hands the ball to A2 who is meets
   resistance at B’s 1 YL. A3 immediately places his hands on A2’s back and
pushes A2 into the EZ for a TD. The R throws a flag on A3 for helping the
runner.

4. A, 3/5 @ B’s 15 YL. A85 runs onto the field 3 YDS from A’s SL and gets set
   just before the snap. A85 goes downfield and catches a pass @ B’s 7 YL. The
HL throws a flag for illegal formation due to A85 not being inside the 9 YD
marks momentarily before the snap. 

5. During A1’s run B1 is blocked and his helmet comes off. The LJ blows the play
   dead due to B1’s helmet coming off.

6. A1 runs for a 1st down and is tackled at B’s 40 YL. After the play A1 is
   flagged for UNS (dead ball). The R signals 1st down and then give the UNS
signal. After enforcement the chains are set at 1/25 for A. The R then gives the
RFP signal. 

7. K, 4/10 @ K’s 20 YL. After the snap K1 runs to his right and punts the ball
   rugby style. R1 is approximately 2 yards away from K1 when he kicks the ball.
R1 contacts K1 and K1 is knocked the ground. R1 did not touch the kicked ball.
The R does not throw a flag for roughing the kicker. 

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. At halftime the HT and VT leave through a common field opening to go to their
   respective locker rooms. The Crew gathers and waits for the teams to leave
the field to start the GC. 

9. This is missed SO much! Ball is downed in SZ. R calls for a measurement. BJ
   comes out and holds ball for measurement but does not get a new FB. After
measurement R picks up FB and moves it inside the HM.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. KO time is 7pm. The HT is on the field and is waiting to KO at 7pm. The VT
    has not arrived on the field yet. The R throws a flag and signals delay of
game.
