---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 9 - Whistle Quiz"
date:   2018-10-21
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s Whistle quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-9.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. A, after scoring a TD lines up for the Try in a muddle huddle formation. A,
   shifts into a scrimmage kick formation but as the offensive line completes
the shift, all the players on the LOS have locked legs with one another. A/K set
for 1 second, snap the ball and K11 kicks a successful try kick. The R flags the
kicking team for illegal formation.

2. In the 1st period the LJ accidentally collides with a coac in the restricted
   area during a live ball while covering a play. The HT is penalized 15 YDS for
illegal personal contact by a nonplayer. With 6:15 remaining in the 3Q the LJ
had 2 more coaches in his way while covering a play without contact. The R
penalized the HT 5 YDS for sideline interference and the LJ explained to the HT
HC that the foul in the 1Q was mandatory due to the contact with the official
but also took into account their sideline warning for the game. 

3. With 1:35 left in the game, A leads 14-12. B1 commits a 5 YD face mask on A22
   while making a score saving tackle in bounds. After the play A22 jumps up and
taunts B1 and is flagged for UNS. After enforcement of both fouls in the order
of occurrence, the R asks the A HC if he wants to start the GC on the snap which
he indicated no. The B HC asked if he gets the same choice and he was instructed
no because the foul committed against them was a dead ball foul and does not
apply since the GC was already stopped.

4. Prior to the ready-for-play on a Try, A’s captain requests the ball be placed
   on the left hash as they are going for 2 points. A, breaks the huddle in a
formation which B was not prepared, being a close game B’s HC calls TO. When
coming back out on the field A’s HC requests the ball be moved to the center of
the field. The R had his U move the ball since B was the team who called the TO
and not A.

5. During a Try K1 is the place-kick holder and in place to receive the snap.
   The snap is a little high so K1 rises slightly to catch the snap, then
returns to a knee to place the football on the tee. K1 realizes the timing with
kicker K2 has been disrupted, so he rises and takes off running with the ball in
an attempt for a 2 pt Try. The Crew implemented fake try mechanics and ruled on
the play accordingly.

6. During a Try K1 is the place-kick holder and in place to receive the snap. K1
   catches the snap and while placing the ball on the tee he looses control of
the ball, he then rises slightly to regain control and returns to a knee to
place the football on the tee. K1 realizes the timing with kicker K2 has been
disrupted, so he rises and takes off running with the ball in an attempt for a 2
pt Try. The Crew implemented fake Try mechanics and ruled on the play
accordingly.

7. With the score tied 21-21 and 15 seconds remaining in the game, K is punting
   from their own 12 YL. The punt is high and short, R22 runs under the kick to
try to make a fair catch and is contacted by K52. The BJ throws a flag for
kick-catch interference with the spot of the foul being K’s 31 YL. The R
explains the 3 options for kick-catch interference to RT’s HC which the HC
chooses, 15-yards from the spot of the foul but requested a TO to discuss with
his coaching staff the possibility of choosing to free kick for points. The Crew
marks off the penalty, set the chains then the R signaled TO for Team B.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. A is lined up for a Try kick. The kick is blocked and lands back on the 20
   YL. Since the Try is ruled no good behind the neutral zone the R turns, faces
the PB and signals “no good”.

9. A22 is tackled short of the LTG between the field numbers and the SL. The LJ
   winds the GC 2x to properly signal the PB the GC is to remain running. As the
BJ approaches the DB spot to help, he mirrors the LJ’s GC wind signal to the PB
as well.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. A is tackled in their own EZ for a safety in a JV game which the coaches
    agreed no KO’s prior to the start. The Crew got together and placed the ball
at the +45 YL or 25 YDS from K’s free kick line.
