---
layout: post
title:  "2018 Quiz 5 - Rules Geek"
date:   2018-09-24
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s Rules Geek quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2018/2018-quiz-5.pdf).

<!--more-->

## Rules

1. A, 4/6@B’s12YL.A1throwsalegalforwardpasstoA2intheEZforaTD.
   DuringtheplayaflagisthrownonB1for defensive holding A2. The R signals the
foul for defensive holding, then the decline signal, and raises his hands giving
the TD signal.

2. A, 3/7 @ B’s 12 YL. B1 intercepts A1’s pass @ B’s 3 YL. On his own B1 runs
   into his EZ toward the opposite side of the field. The LJ blows his whistle
while B1 is in the EZ. The R determines this is a touchback.

3. A1’s forward pass is tipped behind the LOS by B2. The ball continues
   downfield where eligible A2 attempts to catch the ball but before the pass
reaches A2 he’s is interfered with by B3. The BJ and HL throw a flag and signal
DPI to the R.

4. A,4/8@B’s40YL.A1runstowardtheSLandishitbyB1anddrivenOOB@B’s33YL(shortoftheLTG).B2thenhits
A1 OOB. The LJ flags B2 for the late hit. The R announces the foul for the late
hit and states it will be 1/10 for A @ B’s 18 YL.

5. K, 4/10 @ K’s 35YL. The punted ball lands at R’s 20 YL and R5 muffs it and
   then R 87 muffs it into R’s End Zone. K34 falls on the ball in R’s End Zone.
The BJ signals TD.

6. Good Penalty enforcement question... TRICKY! A, 1/10 @ A’s 45 YL. A1 is
   sacked @ A’s 35 YL. During the down A2 is guilty of an illegal block below
the waist @ A’s 47 YL. The crew enforces the foul from the 47 YL.

7. K1 KO to start 1st half. K’s FK is grounded and rolling at R’s 7 YL. R2
   intentionally kicks the ball into K’s EZ to prevent K2 from falling on the
loose ball. The LJ says this is a new force by R2. The R signals illegal kick
and calls this a TB and enforces the penalty from the succeeding spot (R’s 20
YL) and the ball is spotted 1/10 @ R’s 10 YL.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. 4 Officials: A, 2/5 @ B’s 11 YL. The U moves to the EL.

9. Prior to the KO the U is required to memorize the kicker’s shoe and sock
   color so he can see him as he is more than 5 YDS from the KT line.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. After a 1 hour and 20 minute lighting delay the R informs each team’s HC
    they will have a maximum of a 3 minute warm up period if they need it.
