---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Quiz 9 - Rules Geek"
date:   2019-10-31
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s Rules Geek quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2019/2019-quiz-9.pdf).

<!--more-->

## NFHS Rules

1. A, 1/10 @ A’s 20 YL. Snapper A60 takes his position over the ball at A’s 20
   YL and places one or both hands on the ball. The RFP signal is given and as
A60 begins his motion to snap the ball, B55 swipes at the ball, knocking it out
of A60's hands before he has released the ball for the snap. B55 falls on the
ball at A’s 18 YL. The R signals 1/10 for B. 

2. A 4/4 @ B’s 39 YL. A breaks the huddle and lines up as follows - #22 is the
   snapper and on the end of the line, to his right and in order is #32, #42,
#50, #44, #34 with #81 split wide to the right. #12 is 10 YDS deep as a punter
with #10, #28 and #60 3 YDS deep in the backfield and to the left of #22. After
the snap a) #22 goes downfield 5 YDS and catches a pass for a 1st down; b) #34
goes downfield 5 YDS and catches a pass for a 1st down.

3. A, 4/5 @ B’s 25 YL. A10 is tackled at the B’s 26 YL, short of the LTG. After
   A10 is tackled and the ball is dead, B1 piles on. After the penalty is
enforced the R signals 1/10 for A @ B’s 13 YL. 

4. :12 remaining in the 4Q. B is leading by 2 points. A10 runs OOB. The LJ asks
   B’s HC if he wants to start the GC on the RFP.

5. To start the game K1’s free kick is high and short. K23 catches K1’s airborne
   and untouched free kick @ RT’s 49YL. The BJ
signals 1/10 at RT’s 49 YL for K.

6. A, 3/1 @ B’s 40 YL. A56 is involved in close play with B67. A56’s helmet
   comes off without being caused by a foul by any member of B. The play
continues downfield. A56, without his helmet, continues downfield & contacts a B
team member. The U throws a flag for illegal participation on A56 @ B’s 41 YL.
A’s HC calls a TO and tells the HL he’s putting A56 back in the game after the
TO. The HL allows A56 to re-enter the game.

7. The U has examined and approved the footballs provided by each team prior to
   the game. During the game, the weather condition changes for the worse. The
HT requests to have additional footballs approved during the halftime break for
use throughout the remainder of the game.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. In a JV game the officials are asked by the HC to show him a Rule in the Rule
   Book. The officials do not have a Rule Book on the field or in their cars and
tell the HC they are only required to keep a Rule Book on the field for varsity
games.

9. The runner is stopped close to the LTG. The U picks up the ball and throws it
   to the LJ.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. The normal GC operator is not at the game. The HT AD gets a new person to
    run the GC. The GC has to be corrected 4 times. The R tells the AD he must
talk the GC operator in order to keep using it.

