---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Quiz 1 - Black and White"
date:   2019-08-24
author: "Bruce Maurer and Larry Clemmons"
---

This week’s Black and White quiz is prepared by Larry Clemmons association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2019/2019-quiz-1.pdf).

<!--more-->

## 40/25 Play Clock

To help understand the new 40/25 play clock rule the following game scenario is
used.

For the opening kickoff, the BJ hands the ball to the kicker. He goes to his
position and raises his arm when ready. The Referee blows the ready for play
with a 25 second play clock. The game clock starts if the ball is legally
touched.

The kick is caught and returned a few yards. The ball is spotted and the Referee
blows the ready for play with a 25 second play clock. The game clock starts on
the snap.

1. A, 1/10. The ball is run up the middle for a five yard gain. Status of
   clocks?


2. A, 2/5. An incomplete pass is thrown. Status of clocks?

3. A, 3/5. The ball is run for a 10 yard gain; the tackle is inbounds. Status of
   clocks?

4. A, 1/10. A sweep play is run to the right side and the runner is forced out
   of bounds after a three yard gain. Status of clocks.

5. A, 2/7. A pass is completed for a 20 yard gain; the tackle is inbounds, but
   A77 is flagged for holding at the line of scrimmage. Status of clocks?

6. A, 2/17. After a 15 yard run, A22 fumbles and a pile forms. After a delay the
   Crew rules that A88 recovered the FB. Status of clocks?

7. A, 3/2. A, or B calls a team timeout. Status of clocks?

8. A, 3/2. A22 runs for no gain, but is injured. The tackle is inbounds. Status
   of clocks?

9. K, 4/2. The ball is punted and RT makes a fair catch. Status of clocks?

## Mechanics

10. A completes a long pass inbounds and is in a hurry up offense. The FB is
    placed, the officials are in position and the snapper is over the ball. The
down box operator is not yet at the new LOS. The HL blows his whistle and stops
the game clock to wait for the down box.

11. A is in a hurry up offense. The U spots the ball and is moving to his
    position when the snapper snaps the ball before the U is clear.

## Regulations

12. The Crew is in the locker room when the clock operator comes in and notifies
    the Crew that he will be running the game clock and the play clock.
