---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Quiz 8 - Whistle Quiz"
date:   2019-10-20
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s Whistle quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2019/2019-quiz-8.pdf).

<!--more-->

## NFHS Rules

1. B1 intercepts A1’s pass in B’s end zone. During the tackle in the end zone
   A88 grabs and twists B1’s facemask. As a result of the tackle B1 fumbles the
ball from the end zone to the field of play and B55 recovers at the 3 YL. What
is the result of the play?

2. B1 intercepts A1’s pass in B’s end zone. During the tackle in the end zone
   B55 blindside blocks A72 at the 10 YL. As a result of the tackle B1 fumbles
the ball from the end zone to the field of play and OOB at the - 2 YL. What is
the result of the play?

3. B1 intercepts A1’s pass at B’s 3 YL and retreats back in to the end zone
   where he is tackled by A88. During the tackle in the end zone A88 grabs and
twists B1’s facemask and as a result of the tackle B1 fumbles the ball from the
end zone to the field of play and B55 recovers at the - 3 YL. What is the result
of the play?

4. A scrimmage kick by K1 from his own end zone is muffed in flight beyond the
   neutral zone by R1 and rebounds into the end zone where it is recovered by
K2. The ball becomes dead in the end zone when K2 is tackled there. What is the
result of the play?

5. At the snap, interior lineman A66 moves about 3 to 4 YDS downfield and
   finding no one to block retreats back behind the NZ and blocks for A12 who
eventually throws a forward pass which crosses the NZ. Legal play?

6. 4th/8 from K’s 22 YL. K is in scrimmage kick formation. The snap goes over
   K88, the punter’s head, and is rolling inside K’s 5 YL. K88 runs up to the
ball and kicks the ball at K’s 4 YL while it’s on the ground, into and through K’s EZ. What is the result of the play?

7. 4th/8 from K’s 22 YL and 4 seconds left in the 1st qtr. K is in scrimmage
   kick formation. K88 punts the ball to RT’s 40 YL. During the kick R32 blocks
K63 in the back at K’s 47 YL, R22 makes a fair catch at R’s 40 YL with time
expiring in the 1st qtr. What is the result of the play?

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. After a safety the Crew positions themselves for the FK following the safety
   (FKS). The BJ is at K’s 20 YL, the U is on K’s 30 YL opposite the PB, the HL
& LJ at the RT 20 and the R at the RT GL.

9. During a Crew’s pregame discussion on PUM both the LJ & HL said that if the
   ball is snapped between the - 5 and GL their priority is Reverse Mechanics
R&R 1.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. During the HC pregame meeting with the officials the Crew asked both HC’s
    for locker room locations and entrance path to the field. Upon finding out
that it is a common entrance the R informed the HT HC that any “road block”
situation requires the HT to enter and exit first and the Crew will be present
to assist.
