---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Quiz 6 - Rules Geek"
date:   2019-10-01
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s Rules Geek quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2019/2019-quiz-6.pdf).

<!--more-->

## NFHS Rules

1. Team A’s HC calls a TO. He leaves his teams SL and goes to the middle of the
   field. The officials tell the HC he is not permitted to go further than the
numbers and if he wants to talk to his team he should bring them inside between
the numbers and the SL.

2. K, 4/14 @ R’s 27 YL. K’s FG attempt is short and crosses R’s GL. The
   officials place the ball @ R’s 27 YL, 1/10 for RT.

3. A, 3/10 @ B’s 20 YL. Eligible A1 comes out of his team box as a substitute
   and runs quickly onto the field 2 yards and gets set just before the snap. A1
catches a pass for a TD.

4. K, 4/8 @ K's 30YL. K10’s punt is fair caught at R's 35 YL. During the kick
   the LJ collides with one of KT's coaches in the restricted area. The Crew
enforces the personal foul from the PS and awards K a new series @ K’s 25 YL

5. A,2/10@B’s10YL.A1fumblestheball@B’s7YL.TheballisrecoveredbyA2@B‘s4YLandadvancesforaTD.TheRstatesthe ball was dead where A1 lost possession and only A1 can recover and advance his
own fumble.

6. B30 is guilty of running into kicker A15 during an unsuccessful Try. A's HC
   wants to accept the penalty and replay the down, but wishes to decline the
distance penalty because A15 is more comfortable kicking from the previous
distance. The R informs A’s HC he cannot decline the distance if he accepts
penalty.

7. The U has examined and approved the footballs provided by each team prior to
   the game. During the game, the weather condition changes for the worse. The
HT requests to have additional footballs approved during the halftime break for
use throughout the remainder of the game.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. On a KO that’s kicked close to RT’s GL. R10 catches the KO on the RT’s 1/2
   YL. The R winds the GC and the HL blows his whistle and signals a TB.

9. After an interception the LJ throws his BB to indicate the spot of the
   interception.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. Team A is flying 2 drones over the field. One drone is flying low around 20’
    over the R’s head during Reverse Mechanics. The R informs team A’s HC use of
drones is not permitted for the rest of the game as he feels they are flying too
low to the field.

