---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Quiz 3 - Rules Geek"
date:   2019-09-05
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s Rules Geek quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2019/2019-quiz-3.pdf).

<!--more-->

## NFHS Rules

1. K, 4/14 @ K’s 40 YL. K1 brings his “kicking” ball in and hands it to the U.
   The U switches the balls.

2. K, 4/13 @ K’s 30 YL. K1’s punt is low and strikes K2 in the helmet @ K’s 32
   YL. The ball continues in flight to K’s 48 YL where it’s downed by K3. The R
gives the RT the option of taking the ball @ K’s 32 YL or taking the result of
the play.

3. A, 3/3 @ B’s 45 YL. 1:56 remaining in the 2Q with the GC running. A56 false
   starts. The U marks off the penalty and the R gives the RFP and winds the GC.

4. :04 remaining in the 4Q with the RT trailing by 2 points. On the previous
   play K was penalized for a 15-yard penalty during a Try. RT chose to have the
accepted penalty enforced from the succeeding spot. The FK is being made from
K’s 20 YL. K1’s FK is short and R1 signals for a FC; however, R3 catches K1’s
kick. RT’s HC states he will attempt a FK after FC. The crew lines up for the
attempt and informs B they must maintain a 10-yard distance like a FK.

5. K, 4/15 @ K’s 20 YL. K1’s punt is short and grounded at K’s 28 YL. The kicked
   ball is muffed by R1 and rolls back to K’s 18 YL. K2 picks up the ball and
advances for a touchdown.

6. Team B leads by 5 points with: 02 remaining in the 4Q. As time expires A12
   runs the ball beyond the LTG and throws a forward pass to A81 in B’s EZ. Team
B’s HC accepts the illegal forward pass penalty and the R signals there will be
an untimed down. On the untimed down Team A scores a TD and wins the game by 1
point.

7. K1 attempts to down a punt beyond the NZ, but his touching only slows it
   down. The bouncing ball is subsequently recovered by R1, who advances 40
yards but then fumbles and K1 recovers. K1 is immediately tackled.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. After a foul the calling official runs 10 steps to get closer to the R to
   yell the foul, give the signal and tell the number of the offending player.

9. On a FK that’s kicked close to R’s GL. R10 catches the FK on the RT 1/2 YL.
   The R winds the GC and the HL blows his whistle and signals a TB.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. Team A is using 3 drones over the field to record the game. Team B’s HC asks
    the R to have the drones removed.
