---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Quiz 2 - Whistle Quiz"
date:   2019-08-25
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s Whistle quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2019/2019-quiz-2.pdf).

<!--more-->

## NFHS Rules

1. K is in position for the opening KO of the season. Their formation has a player
more than 10 YDS behind the ball, 4 players to the left all in front of the 35
YL and 6 players to the right all in front of the 35 YL. The R blows the
ready-for-play and the apparent kicker approaches the ball when the first player
to the right cuts in front and attempts an onside kick which goes OOB short of
the 50 YL. The officiating crew offered the RT the 4 options for a free kick
OOB.

2. K is in position for the opening KO of the season. Their formation has all 11
   players less than 5 yds from their FK line, 4 players to the left and 6
players to the right of the kicker. The R blows the ready-for-play and the
apparent kicker approaches the ball when the first player to the left cuts in
front and attempts an onside kick. The BJ immediately blows his whistle and
throws his flag shutting the kick down.

3. K is in position for a KO after a score, which tied the game early in the 4th
   qtr. Their formation has all 11 players less than 5 YDS from their FK line, 4
players to the left and 6 players to the right of the kicker. The R blows the
ready-for-play and K1 approaches the ball and attempts to onside kick by driving
the ball into the ground and up in the air toward one of his 6 teammates on his
right. The U immediately blows his whistle and throws his flag shutting the kick
down.

4. K is in position for a KO. The R blows the ready-for-play and the apparent
   kicker approaches the ball and kicks it downfield near the far sideline. R1
gets in position to catch the kick with one foot inbounds and the other on the
sideline. R1 reaches through the SL and catches the kick in flight. The LJ comes
up the SL and blows the play dead, ruling R1 OOB and placing the ball at that
OOB spot R’s ball 1/10.

5. K is in position for a KO after a score, which tied the game late in the 4th
   qtr. K1 attempts an onside kick by kicking the ball slightly over the first
row of RT players near the SL. K2 sprints between the RT players, dives and
catches the kick in the air at R’s 47 YL. The Crew awarded K the ball since it
traveled the necessary 10 YDS past RT’s free kick line.

6. With 12 seconds left in the 2nd qtr. K is punting from their end zone. R1 is
   in position to catch the kick at K’s 30 YL when the kick in flight hits K2 on
the shoulder. The BJ flags K2 for KCI. RT accepts the option of 15 YDS from the
spot of the foul, and the awarded FC, then chooses to snap with 7 seconds on the
game clock. B3 then commits DPI on an incomplete pass in the end zone. The Crew
enforces the DPI penalty when A’s head coach asks the LJ if he can now FK for
points since there is only 1 second on the game clock. The LJ said it was too
late since they have run a play.

7. With 8 seconds left in the 2nd qtr. K is punting from their end zone. R1 is
   in position to catch the kick at K’s 30 YL when the kick in flight hits K2 on
the shoulder. The BJ flags K2 for KCI. RT accepts the option of 15 YDS from the
spot of the foul and the awarded FC then request a time out to decide on
snapping or a FK with 3 seconds left on the game clock. The officiating crew
grants the TO.

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. During the pregame head coach meeting, the LJ asked if his kicker can reach
   the end zone. The coach said he’s not a very strong kicker and will be
kicking to the open spots. Based on the coach’s opinion, the HL and LJ decide to
change their KOM IP to -10YL for the opening KO.

9. When the HL went over to talk with the chain crew, they told him they were
   local new Class 2 officials. Since it was a cooler night all 3 had the older
1” striped reversible jackets, since they were all licensed officials the HL
thought it would be fine if they wore the jackets with the stripes exposed.

## OHSAA Regulations

10. Twenty minutes prior to KO the play clock & game clock operators meet with
    the Crew in their locker room. The play clock operator stated that he’s not
too sure about the new 40-second play clock rules and was wondering if the BJ
would operate the play clock on the field. This way he could watch and learn and
be able to operate the play clock on his own next week.
