---
layout: post
title:  "2019 Quiz 5 - Whistle Quiz"
date:   2019-09-22
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s Whistle quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2019/2019-quiz-5.pdf).

<!--more-->

## NFHS Rules

1. QB A1 takes the snap from the shotgun and throws a pass over the middle.
   Lineman B2 jumps and bats the ball back, QB A1 catches the batted ball,
realizing he has time A1 looks downfield, finds his original receiver and throws
a completed pass for a 12 yd gain. The crew ruled since the ball was tipped the
second pass is legal.

2. QB A1 throws a completed pass to A81 in the EZ and B22 is flagged for DPI.
   The BJ signaled the foul to the R and the options given to the HC were to
decline the penalty to keep the TD or accept the penalty and replay the down.

3. QB A1 throws a completed pass to A81 in the EZ and B22 is flagged for DPI.
   The BJ signaled the foul to the R and the options given to the HC were to
enforce the penalty on the try or the KO. The HC wanted the penalty on the KO
and chose to kick the PAT. During the successful kick try, B was flagged for
running into kicker. The R informed the HC he has a choice of penalties on the
KO and he chose the 15 yd DPI vs the 5 yd RIK.

4. A32 runs 12 yds before being hit and fumbles. B45 picks up the fumble and
   returns for a TD. Prior to the fumble A72 is flagged for holding. The R
informed B’s HC he has to decline the penalty to keep the score.

5. A32 runs 12 yds before being hit and fumbles. B45 picks up the fumble and
   returns for a TD. During the return A12 grabs a potential blocker by the
facemask and throws them aside. The R informed B’s HC he has to decline the
penalty to keep the score.

6. On the last play of the 1st half A12 scored a touchdown. On a successful try
   kick B52 was flagged for runnin into the kicker. What choices should A
receive as a result of this penalty? 

7. On the last play of the game A kicks a field goal to tie the game. During the
   successful kick B is flagged for roughing the kicker. With this being the
last play of the game what choices should A receive as a result of this penalty?
Would the choices be the same if a penalty occurred on the last play which
resulted in a TD and a try point tied the game?

## OHSAA Mechanics

8. After a score late in the 4th qtr and the scoring team still down 2 points
   the R informed the crew to use on- side mechanics for this next KO. The HL
went up to the 50 YL and informed the U we are in OKOM and to move to the 40 YL

9. Late in the 2nd qtr team A picked up the pace and started running their
   hurry-up offense. A3 was tackled close to the SL inbounds; the LJ wound the
clock to signal inbounds spotted the ball and quickly turned to get a new ball
from his ball boy right behind him. 

## OHSAA Regulations

10. During the pregame meeting the timer said it is easier for him to just put
    23:00 minutes on the scoreboard for the halftime intermission and 3:00
minute warmup and just let it run until it runs out. The LJ informed th timer
that both the 20 and the 3 must appear and countdown separately.
