---
layout: post
title:  "2020 Quiz 2 - The Whistle"
date:   2020-9-4
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemesin association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2020/2020_quiz_2.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. The ball is dead after running a play and ends in the side zone. The BJ stops
the game clock for an injured defensive player. After the trainers attend to the
player and he’s safely removed from the playing field, the R blows the ready
whistle, winds the game clock and the play clock operator starts the 25-second
play clock.

2. K’s punt is caught by R10 who returns the kick 10yds then is hit and fumbles.
   K62 recovers the fumble and the officials signal 1st and 10, KT’s ball. The
R/BJ signals the PCO to start the 40 second PC since the KT maintains possession
and will be next to put the ball in play.

3. A22 is running in the open field and B51 grabs A22’s neck gaiter from behind
   just below his helmet and pulls A22 down backward abruptly to the ground. A’s
HC asked for a horse-collar foul. The officials informed the coach that it did
not meet the requirements of a horse-collar due to what got pulled, was not a
jersey, shoulder pads or the nameplate.

4. Team A is running their 2-minute offense at the end of the 2nd qtr. A12
   throws a pass for a 1st down and hurries his team to line up and get set. A12
is positioned behind the center in a shotgun formation, receives the snap and
spikes it forward to the ground immediately. The officials stop the clock for an
incomplete pass.

5. Team A is running their 2 minute offense at the end of the 2nd qtr. A12
   throws a pass for a 1st down and hurries his team to line up and get set. A12
is positioned behind the center in a shotgun formation, the snap is skipped back
to A12 on one bounce which he recovers and spikes it forward to the ground
immediately. The officials stop the GC for an incomplete pass.

6. A12 goes under center and starts his cadence count and B51 begins to call
   defensive signals which is very similar to Team A’s offensive cadence. The U
judges this to be disconcerting to the offensive, sounds his whistle and flags
B51 with UNS conduct foul.

7. K89’s punt is in flight and K50 is running down field to cover the punt, R23
   is in position to catch the punt when the kick strikes K50 on the helmet. The
BJ flags K50 for KCI.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. At the end of the first quarter, the officials blew their whistles and
   signaled TO. The R checked with his Crew for timing errors and any carry over
requirements then faced the PB, signaled TO and placed his hand in the air
overhead.

9. After a fair catch on K’s 20 YL in a 2 point game with 6 secs left in the
   game, the RT has chosen to free kick for points from the spot of the fair
catch. The officials inform the kicking team of their decision and move to their
proper IP’s. R-kicker, U-GP opp. PB, HL-KT line, LJ- RT line and the BJ-GP PB side.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. After a challenging call during the game, one of the assistant coaches
    continued to berate their LOS official. The official asked the HC to control
his assistant but the verbal conflict continued so as a result the official
stopped the game, called an UNS foul on the assistant and then told the HC coach
he is charged with UNS as well for not controlling his bench.


