---
layout: post
title:  "2020 Quiz 8 - The Whistle"
date:   2020-10-11
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2020/2020_quiz_8.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. RT returns K’s scrimmage kick for a TD and during the kick, K commits a
   holding foul. The R tells the HC he has to decline the penalty to keep the TD.

2. A 3rd/3 with 46 seconds left in the 2Q and the score 21-7, Team B is winning.
   With the GC running A77 false starts. The officials administered the penalty,
blew the ready and wound the GC. A was stopped short of the LTG and let the GC
run out to end the half.

3. A 4th/4 on B’s 39 YL. A breaks the huddle and lines up as follows - #22 is
   the snapper and on the end of the line, to his right and in this order are
#32, #42, #50, #44, #34 with #81 split wide to the right. #12 is 10 YDS deep as
a punter with #13, #28 and #60 3 YDS deep in the backfield and to the left of
#22. After the snap #22 goes downfield 5 YDS, catches a pass, and tackled. The
LJ signals a 1st down.

4. A 2nd/9 on B’s 19 YL with 2 seconds left on the GC in a 21-20 game with Team
   B winning. A breaks the huddle and lines up as follows - #22 is the snapper
and on the end of the line, to his right and in this order are #32, #42, #50,
#44, #34 with #81 split wide to the right. #13 is 7 yds deep with a knee on the
ground as a holder and #12 3 yds deeper as a kicker, #28 and #60 in the
backfield behind #22 and to the left. After the snap Team A attempts and kicks
the game winning field goal.

5. K 4th/10 on K’s 45 YL. K89’s punt is rolling on RT’s 15 YL when K22 attempts
   to down the punt but his touching only slowed it down. R33 recovers the ball
and advances 25 yards, is hit, fumbles and K32 recovers. The officials get together to discuss and then give the RT the option of retaining possession at the spot of first touching by K at the 15 YL.

6. K 4th/10 on K’s 45 YL. K89’s punt is rolling on RT’s 2 YL when K22 attempts
   to down the punt by getting in front of the kick and stopping the ball in the
field of play just before the GL. While downing the ball K22 was unaware, he had
one foot on the GL. The officials get together to discuss and then rule a TB
because of K22 being on the GL when he touched/downed the ball.

7. A 3rd/3 on their own 30 YL. QB A12 appears to run a play which looks like an
   option play but at the last second he flips the ball forward to tight end A88
cutting across just behind the offensive lineman. The ball hits A88 on the hands
then falls to the ground where B51 recovers. The officials signal B’s ball and
rule a fumble since it happened behind the LOS.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. A 2rd/2 from B’s 9 YL. At the snap, the LJ started moving immediately toward
   the GL. The LJ was at the 2 YL when the runner got stopped very close to the
7 YL so he hustled back to spot the ball. At the half the observer asked the LJ
his progression requirements on that GLM play and his answer was strictly to
follow GLM as it was 2nd down so TFM did not apply.

9. Team A just scored making the score 34-0 in the 3Q. The R wound the GC on the
   ready for the subsequent KO. K’s kick is caught by R24 who returns the kick,
is hit and fumbles with K66 recovering the fumble. All 5 officials kill the GC
and the GCO stops the GC. The officials allow the teams to line up their
respected offense and defense then the R blows the RFP whistle and winds the GC.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. Team A snaps the ball with 8 seconds left in the 3Q during a 34-0 running
    clock. During the play, A is flagged for holding which B accepts and time
expired for the period during the down. The officials enforced the penalty and
informed the HC’s that as a result an untimed down is required to extend the
period.
