---
layout: post
title:  "2020 Quiz 7 - Upon Further Review"
date:   2020-10-04
author: "Bruce Maurer and Eric Mauk"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Eric Mauk association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2020/2020_quiz_7.pdf).

<!--more-->

# Rules

1. A throws a long pass toward the end zone as time is running out for the half.
   A82 is called for OPI. The ball is intercepted by B27 and is returned for a
TD. During the return the GC expires and there are two block-in-the-back fouls
called. The crew offsets the penalties and replays the down.

2. K 4/9 on K30YL. K is in scrimmage kick formation. At the snap, R79
   immediately holds and takes down K55. The hold takes place in the neutral
zone. R48 makes a fair catch at the R34. The HL rules that the hold on R should
be enforced from the LOS, giving K a first down on its 40YL.

3. A 3/10 on B15YL. A12 runs to the B10 where he is tackled. A12 spikes the ball
   at the end of the play, drawing a UNS foul. Seconds later, B72 curses at the
official and draws a UNS. The crew offset the two UNS fouls and mark it A 4/5 on
the B10.

4. A 4/8 on A24YL. A is in scrimmage kick formation. The snap goes over the
   punter’s head, where it is recovered at the A8. The punter manages to kick
the ball, and is then roughed by B48. The kick rolls to the A14, where it is
surrounded by players from both teams. K9 picks up the ball, stands for a
second, and runs for a TD. The crew declines the RTK foul and awards the score.

5. K 4/15 on A24YL. K is in scrimmage kick formation. K27 and K87 both shift to
   their blocking positions just as the ball is snapped. R29 makes a fair catch
at the R49. What are the options?

6. A 2/3 on A37. A19 scrambles and throws a forward pass from the A46. The pass
   is incomplete. During the play, A60 is flagged for being illegally downfield.

7. K 4/12 on K49. K7 lines up four yards behind the LOS and after receiving the
   snap, executes a quick kick, punting the ball to the R12 where it is downed.
The LJ throws a flag for kicking from fewer than seven yards behind the LOS. 

# Mechanics

8. A 3/13, A47 YL. A74 is called for holding at the B49. The run ends at the
   B47. Upon confirmation of the call, the U takes the ball and marches 10 yards
from the spot of the foul and signals third down.

9. A14, in an effort to avoid being sacked, throws a forward pass 30 yards
   downfield and 10 yards OOB. The R, BJ and Wing on the side of the pass all
throw their flags for intentional grounding. They get together and agree on the
call prior to enforcement.

# Regulations

10. 3/5 on B22. A86 is lined up wide, with his mouthpiece hanging from his
    helmet. The HL does not see the mouthpiece until the play has started. He
throws the flag for Failure to Wear Required Equipment.
