---
layout: post
title:  "2020 Quiz 6 - Rules Geek"
date:   2020-09-27
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2020/2020_quiz_6.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. K, 4/10 @ R’s 10 YL. K is in a SK formation (FG). After the snap all lineman
   step down and interlock feet. The R throws a flag for illegal formation. 

2. K, 4/8 @ R’s 40 YL. K10’s punt bounces at the RT’s 4 YL. The ball bounces
   over the GL and is airborne just inside the RT’s EZ. K 81 jumps over RT’s GL
and while airborne bats the ball into the field of play where it lands on RT’s 2
YL. The BJ signals COP at R’s 2 YL.

3. K is attempting a Try. The HC requests the ball be placed on the left HM.
   During the Try the RT is flagged for running into the kicker. After the
penalty is enforced half the distance to the RT’s GL Team K’s HC calls a TO.
After the TO he sends his offense onto the field for a 2-pt Try. The HC requests
the ball be placed in the center of the field for the 2-pt Try. The R informs
the HC he cannot change from the left HM after he designated it for the Try
attempt.

4. A, 2/5 @ A’s 20 YL. After the snap A67 is 4 yards beyond the LOS. A12 (QB)
   sees A67 as he’s scrambling and throws the ball toward him. B56 interferes
with A67’s chance to catch the ball. The LJ throws a flag and signals DPI on
B56. The U throws a flag and signals ineligible downfield on A67. The Crew gets
together and after a discussion the R waves the DPI flag off and enforces the
ineligible downfield.

5. A, 1/10 @ B’s 30 YL. Just before the snap B65 calls out A’s normal cadence
   for the second time after being warned by the U a quarter earlier. A76, A72,
A65 and A80 all move before the snap as B65 is calling out the cadence. Flags
fly from both Wings and the U. They get together and agree this was a
disconcerting act by B65. The U walks off a 15 yard for the penalty.

6. During a long run by A34, B74’s helmet comes off after a legal block. The HL
   sees B74 and blows his whistle to stop play.

7. After a TD an asst. coach throws in the Tee for the Try. The R notices the
   black Tee looks like 2 Tee’s glued together. He picks it up and notices it is
a 4” tee that is made up of two 2” inch tees glued together. The R signals
officials TO and tells the kicker and K’s HC the tee is not legal and cannot be
used.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. A, 1/10 @ the A’s 3 YL. The Wings are both standing 2 yards OOB at the snap.

9. After a punt R35 signals for a FC. The BJ (5-man) or the U (4-man) signals TO
   (2X) and then COP (1X).

# OHSAA Regulations

10. A JV VT is late getting to the game. Their bus arrives at 10:20am. The R
    informs the VT HC he has 10 minutes to warm-up before the start of the game.
