---
layout: post
title:  "2020 Quiz 4 - Upon Further Review"
date:   2020-09-20
author: "Bruce Maurer and Eric Mauk"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Eric Mauk association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2020/2020_quiz_4.pdf).

<!--more-->

# Rules

1. A scores a TD to take a 15-6 lead. During an unsuccessful Try- kick, the RT is
called for roughing the snapper. The coach would like to accept the result of
the play (a missed Try) and enforce the 15 yard roughing the snapper penalty on
the succeeding KO.

2. 3/12 on B 24YL. A10 hands the ball forward to A82 on a jet sweep. Running to
   the right, A82 pulls up and throws a forward pass to A86. The pass is
complete to the B14 YL.

3. 3/10 on B 15YL. 0:15 seconds remain and the GC is running. A12 takes the snap
   from the shotgun formation and immediately spikes the ball to the turf to
stop the GC.

4. 2/20 on B42YL. Less than 2 minutes left in the game, A12 completes pass to
   A80, who is tackled inbounds on the B28 YL. As A80 scrambles to get the ball
back to the LOS to start the next play, B63 swats the ball out of his hands.

5. 2/15 on A24YL. A’s forward pass is simultaneously possessed by A84 and B27,
   who are both airborne. A84 comes down first and lands with one foot inbounds
on the A41. B27 comes down second and lands out of bounds. The covering official
rules a simultaneous catch and awards the A the ball on the 41.

6. 2/4 on A37YL. : 07 left in 2Q. A12 scrambles and throws a forward pass from
   the A41YL. The pass is completed to A88 on the B12YL, who goes OOB. After A88
is OOB, B46 illegally contacts the receiver. Time expires during the down.

7. In OT, K’s field goal attempt is blocked by R78. R48 recovers the loose ball
   and returns it for a TD. R signals that the game is over and the Crew leaves
the field.

# Mechanics

8. 4/G. K is attempting a FG from the RT 8YL. The Wings line up 15 yards outside
   the nearest KT players. They do NOT line up in Goal Line Mechanics.

9. K’s punt from the K36YL is low and is partially tipped on the K29YL by R39.
   The U does not have a good angle and does not signal the tip, but the LJ, who
was staying on the LOS to wait for the punt to clear the neutral zone sees it
and makes the tip signal.

# Regulations

10. At the start of the second half, the home team is not on the field at the
    conclusion of the three-minute warmup period. During the 3Q, the HC receives
a UNS foul for coming onto the field and loudly arguing an official’s call. The
HC is ejected for a second UNS call.
