---
layout: post
title:  "2020 Quiz 3 - Rules Geek"
date:   2020-09-13
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2020/2020_quiz_3.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. K, 4/10 @ K’s 30 YL. K’s punt is high; R1 gives an invalid fair catch signal at
R’s 30 YL and realizes the ball is short. R1 then blocks K2 at R’s 42 YL before
possession by the RT at R’s 45 YL. The BJ throws a flag for an invalid fair
catch signal & for the illegal block by R1. R3 recovers the bouncing punt & is
tackled.

2. K, 4/8 @ K’s 2 YL. K1 punts the ball and R1 gives a valid fair catch signal.
   R2 catches the ball and R’s HC informs the LJ he wants to attempt a free kick
after fair catch.

3. K, 4/10 @ K’s 20 YL. K1’s punt is blocked by R2 behind the LOS and recovered
   by K2 @ K’s 14 YL. K2 advances the ball to K’s 28 YL. The R signals first
down for K since R2 touched the kicked ball.

4. K, 4/14 @ K’s 40 YL. K has 5 players in the backfield & is called by the
   Wings at the snap. K1 punts; R1 catches the punt & is tackled at the R35 YL.
The Crew gives the option to the RT HC of enforcing the penalty at the previous
spot or declining the penalty.

5. A, 2/10 @ A’s 25 YL with 1:35 remaining in the 2Q. After A32 is downed, B56
   is down on the field with an apparent injury. After B56 is up and moved off
the field. The R signals the PCO to reset the PC to 25 seconds by raising and
pumping up one hand. He then winds the PC to start on his RFP.

6. K, 4/15 @ K’s 20 YL. K1’s punt is short and grounded at K’s 28 YL. The punt
   is muffed by R1 and rolls back to K’s 18 YL. K2 picks up the ball and
advances for a TD.

7. 4Q with A trailing by 1 point. A32 runs the ball to B’s 33YL where’s he is
   downed. The GC is still running with :08 left on the GC. After the play B6 is
flagged for UNS. The R signals the UNS & it is marked off to B’s 18 YL. Team A
is running on to the field for a FGA. The R winds the GC and time expires.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. Reverse mechanics are to be put in place when the bean bag is positioned on
   the -10YL.

9. During a tight SL catch the HL signals “catch” 2X & the stops the GC 2X

# OHSAA Regulations

10. There is a safety in a junior high game. The crew places the ball at the A’s
    45 YL (25 yards away from the normal FK line following a safety) for the
next set up downs.
