---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Quiz 3"
date:   2021-08-27
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2021/2021-quiz-3.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. K 4/6 on B􏰄s 48 YL. K1 punts the ball high and deep, R32 makes a fair catch
   signal at the 7 YL. R32 muffs the kick and the ball rolls toward the end
􏰁one. In an effort to recover the kick R32 dives but the ball bounces up hits
his/her hand and goes into the end 􏰁one where K81 recovers. The BJ is on the
goal line and signals TD. The BJ explained to the R, the kick ended as soon as
R32 touched the ball since he/she signaled for a fair catch.

2. K 4/6 on their own 20 YL. K1 punts the ball downfield where R32 catches the
   kick and returns for a TD. During the kick, K45 held an R pla􏰃er rushing to
block the punt. The R asks R􏰄s HC ifhewouldliketheholdingpenalt􏰃onthetr􏰃ortheKO.

3. K 4/6 on their own 40 YL. K1 punts the ball downfield where R32 catches the
   kick at their 38 YL and returns to K􏰄s 43 YL. During the kick, R45 held a K
pla􏰃er who was running downfield to cover the kick. The Crew rules the foul as a
PSK foul 1/10 R at their own 28 YL.

4. A 4/6 on B􏰄s 42 YL, 22 secs remain on the game clock. A16 completes a 20 􏰃d.
   pass to A84 and as a result A12 hurries his/her shotgun/spread team to the
line. A12 takes the snap with 8 secs from the shotgun and throws the ball
forward to the ground immediatel􏰃. The Crew kills the clock and signals 2nd
down.

5. K 4/12 on K􏰄s 30 YL. K􏰄s scrimmage kick is caught, b􏰃 R22 who returns the
   kick 18 􏰃ds. up field where he/she is hit, fumbles, and K51 recovers the
fumble. The result of the pla􏰃 is 1/10 K. When will the game clock start? How
much time should be on the pla􏰃 clock?

6. A 3/8 on R􏰄s 35 YL. A14􏰄s pass is intercepted b􏰃 B22 at B􏰄s 48 YL. B22
   returns the interception up field where he/she is hit, fumbles and A41 scoops
up the fumble and runs 5 􏰃ds. before being tackled. The result of the pla􏰃 is
1/10 A, when will the clock start? How much time should be on the pla􏰃 clock?

7. With 1:22 on the game clock in the 4th qtr. and B trailing 18-16. A32 runs
   the ball and B63 is flagged for a face mask. After the pla􏰃 A32 jumps up and
sa􏰃s something to B63 and is flagged for UNS. The officials administer the FM
and ask A􏰄s HC if the􏰃 want the game clock to start on the snap. The􏰃 refuse.
The􏰃 then administer the UNS DB foul and ask B􏰄s HC if the􏰃 would like the clock
to start on the snap. Being behind, the􏰃 accept.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. During the Crew􏰄s pregame discussion the R tells his U that he/she wants
   him/her to give him/her the game clock status signal (cross arms or index
finger wind) each time he/she signals the PB.

9. During the pregame meeting with the HC, he/she indicated that he was going to
   onside kick if he/she kicks to start the game but he/she asked the Crew if
the􏰃 would not shift their positions to keep the element of surprise. The Crew
agreed.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. During the pregame meeting with the HT HC, he/she asked the Crew if the􏰃
    could have the VT enter the field through the common gate before the start
of the game.

