---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Quiz 7"
date:   2021-10-01
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2021/2021-quiz-7.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. During a Try, A decides to go for a 2-point conversion. The Try is
   successful. During the Try B32 is flagged for DPI. A’s HC is told he/she must
decline the penalty to keep the 2-points or accept and replay the untimed down.

2. A, 1/10 @ B’s 40 YL. A12 scrambles and ultimately hands the ball forward to
   A32 @ B’s 40 YL. A32 was a running back in the backfield at the snap.

3. A, 3/5 @ B’s 35 YL. Team A has two # 4’s participating during the same down
   in a varsity game. The Crew does not throw a flag.

4. Team K comes out for a try-kick. The holder does not have a tee. The R tells
   the holder he/she must use a tee. K is forced to go for a 2-point conversion
as they do not have a tee.

5. A,3/G@B’s4YL.:02secondsremaininthe4QwithAtrailingby3.RunnerA30fallsontopofaBplayer@B’s2YL
but doesn’t touch the ground. The LJ blows his whistle as A30 jumps up and runs
into B’s EZ. The Crew gets together and determines this was an IW by the LJ. The
R signals the game is over by raising the ball.

6. A calls a TO. Immediately after the TO is over they call a second TO. The R
   tells them they cannot call 2 timeouts in a row.

7. FK from K’s 40 YL. While K10’s kick is still airborne, R21 runs and blocks
   K10 @ K’s 44 YL.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. 4th & very close to a 1st down. The HL yells for the ball. The U tosses the
   HL the ball to place down at his/her feet.

9. During a quick pass to the HT side of the field, A80 is hit and driven
   backward. The LJ tries to get the spot but is confused to where A80 was when
he/she was hit and drove backward. He/she guesses.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. GC operator is continuously not stopping the GC. The Crew must keep
    resetting the GC.
