---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Quiz 5"
date:   2021-09-14
author: "Bruce Maurer and Erik Mauk"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Erik Mauk in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2021/2021-quiz-5.pdf).

<!--more-->

# Rules

1. HT has possession of the ball to start an OT period. The HT HC asks for the
   ball to be
placed on the left hash mark. After the RFP, and as the HT comes to the LOS, the
HT HC
looks at the defense and calls time out. After the time out, he asks for the
ball to be
moved to the center of the field. The U declines the request.

2. HT has possession of the ball to start an OT period. The HT HC asks for the
   ball to be
placed on the left hash mark. HT A53 false starts. The HT HC then asks for the
ball to be
moved to the center of the field for the next play, which starts at the B25.

3. 3/9 B12 – VT has possession of the ball in an OT period and has decided to
   kick a FG as
HT did not score on their possession. VT A10 fumbles the snap, rises to recover
and
then puts his/her knee on the ground to hold for the kick. The kick is no good.
The
officials prepare to start the second OT period.

4. K Free Kick from the K40YL – K’s KO is high and deep, bouncing at the A2 and
   hitting
the pylon. A’s HC asks for the ball to be spotted on the right hash of the
A20YL.

5. A 2/7 from B41YL – A84 is running a pass pattern near the sideline and is
   inadvertently
bumped out of bounds by B48 just before the ball leaves the passer’s hand. A84
sees
the ball coming and leaps from out of bounds to catch the ball, secures the ball
and
lands inbounds at the B8. The covering official throws a flag for illegal
participation and
penalizes A 15 yards from the previous spot.

6. 1/10 A35YL – A12 drops back to pass &amp; is under heavy pressure. He/she
   eludes the rush
&amp; scrambles in his/her own backfield as the blocking breaks down. As he/she
is about
to go down, he/she throws a backwards pass that is caught by A73, who then
throws a
forward pass to A34 at the A48YL who scores a TD.

7. 1/10 A 7YL – A14 throws a backward pass to A28. The ball is muffed into the
   air, where
B51 swats at the ball, knocking it out of the EZ. The officials rule a safety.

# Mechanics

8. 3/12 on A35 – A87 catches a pass on the SL and is tackled by two B players
   very near
the A47 and the first down marker. The momentum of the players continues into
the
OOB area. HL gets to the spot, marks the spot, stops the GC, and signals to the
R that
the play is first down.

9. 3/G on B7 – The IP for the U is seven yards off the ball, varying his/her
   position laterally
prior to each snap. From the B7, the U realizes that his/her IP places them on
the goal
line and adjusts their IP to one yard deep in the EZ.

# Regulations

10. Team A comes out for pregame warmup with a player wearing the #0 jersey.
