---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Quiz 2"
date:   2021-08-22
author: "Bruce Maurer and Eric Mauk"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Eric Mauk in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2021/2021-quiz-2.pdf).

<!--more-->

# Rules

1. A73 is lined up as the offensive guard. B63 is lined up directly in front of
   him on the LOS. At the snap, A73 stands up as to feign a pass-blocking stance
and then immediately initiates a low block on B63.

2. A79 is lined up as the left offensive tackle. B60 is lined up over left guard
   A52, 2-3 feet away from A79, but on the LOS. At the snap, A79 immediately
executes a ‘reach’ block, going low and to his right and makes contact with B60
below the waist. A52 blocks down on nose tackle B75 and does not contact B60.
The umpire throws a flag for BBW.

3. 4/9 on B26YL – R48 is in position to field a scrimmage kick at the A37YL. The
   punt hits the ground at the A40 and bounces high into the air. R48 moves
laterally to catch the bounce and his path to the ball is affected by the
presence of K29. A37 cannot reach the ball, which bounces OOB at the A26 YL. The
BJ rules 1/10 for R at the A26.

4. K Free Kick from the K40YL – K executes a high, short kickoff, designed to
   land behind the first wave of blockers. The ball is blown back toward the K
EZ and is coming down in the neutral zone. R12 gives a valid fair-catch signal
at the K48 and is contacted by K58 before making the catch. Options?

5. K Free Kick from the K40YL – K’s kick is deep and coming down near the
   sideline. R21 is tracking the flight of the ball and is standing on the
sideline when he catches the kick at the R24YL. The LJ kills the play and awards
the ball to A 1/10 on the A24.

6. K Free Kick from the K40YL – K has 4 players lined up left of the kicker and
   6 to the right. They are all lined up on the K36YL. After the RFP, as the
kicker starts his/her run to the ball, K25 (who is on the left side of the
kicker) goes in motion toward the kicker. During his/her motion he/she drops
back 2 yards, from where he/she had been lined up, but is at the K37YL and is
still to the left of the kicker when the kick is made.

7. K Free Kick from the K40YL – The kick is caught by R48 on the R 2YL. As
   he/she starts his/her return, he/she reverses field and crosses the GL into
his/her end zone. He/she runs the ball out of the EZ and returns it for a TD.
The officials rule the play as a TD for RT.

# Mechanics

8. Defensive holding is called on B26 by the U at the B35YL. The flag is
   properly thrown at the spot of the foul in the SZ. The end of the run is the
B39YL. The U informs the R with a prelim signal and then tells the HL so that
he/she can report the info to the HC. The HL goes to speak to the HC & U begins
to mark off the yardage from the spot of the foul.

9. 3/2 on A45 – A32 is tackled by the numbers after a two-yard gain. The LJ
   comes in, marks the spot and calls for the ball, which had been dropped after
the play by the back. The BJ tosses the ball to the LJ, who drops it, retrieves
it and spots it correctly for determination of a first down.

# Regulations

10. Free Kick from the K40YL – The kick is caught by R48 who starts his/her
    return and is at the K40 yard line on his/her way to an apparent TD when the
stadium lights go out.
