---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Quiz 9"
date:   2021-10-10
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2021/2021-quiz-9.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. K 4th/12 on B’s 35 YL. During the kick, which rolled into B’s EZ, R24 is
   flagged for a block in the back at B’s 16 YL. The Crew administered the foul
and spotted the ball 1st/10 at R’s 8 YL.

2. After a successful Try kick, K is flagged for a DB UNS foul. On the
   subsequent KO, K83’s kick goes OOB on the 50 YL. The LJ flagged the OOB spot
and the Crew spotted the ball at the 50 YL 1st/10 for the RT since the OOB spot
was the same as 25 YDS from the previous spot.

3. On the last play of the 1st period, A12 throws a pass, which is intercepted
   by B52. B52 advances the ball 6 YDS where they are hit and during the tackle
hands the ball forward to B42 prior to being downed. B42 advances the ball 15
more YDS before being tackled with no time on the clock. The Crew discussed the
forward handling foul, administered the penalty, giving the ball to B, 1st/10 to
run an untimed down since the loss of down penalty does not apply to the
defense.

4. K 4th/10 from K’s 35 YL. K82’s punt is a good kick that drives R42 back 10
   YDS where he/she is downed. During the kick K32 holds in the backfield
preventing a block. R chose to enforce the penalty from the previous spot and
have K re-kick. When should the GC start, on the ready-for-play or on the snap?

5. K 4th/10 from K’s 35 YL. K82’s punt is short and R42 advances 5 YDS after
   catching the punt. During the kick K32 holds in the backfield preventing a
block. RT chooses to enforce the penalty from the succeeding spot and their ball
1st/10. When should the game clock start, on the ready-for-play or on the snap?

6. K 4th/10 from K’s 35 YL. K82’s punt is a good high kick so R42 makes a fair
   catch signal and catches the punt. Prior to the snap K32 was illegally in
motion. RT is given the choice to enforce the penalty from the succeeding spot
and their ball 1st/10 or enforce the penalty from the previous spot and have K
re-kick. When should the GC start, on the ready-for-play or on the snap?

7. Between downs any number of eligible substitutes may replace players. If not
   done correctly, it relates to an illegal substitution foul but this foul must
be enforced in an equitable process. Therefore, some situations require illegal
substitution to be a dead ball foul and others require it to be a live ball
foul. For the following situations, which are dead ball fouls and which are live
ball fouls?

a. A replaced player attempts to get off the field and does not get off prior to
the snap
b. A replaced player attempts to get off the field and goes across the end line
prior to the snap
c. A replaced player goes off the field on the wrong side during the down
d. A replaced player does not attempt to get off the field within 3 seconds
after being replaced
e. An entering substitute attempts to get on their side of the line of scrimmage
unsuccessfully prior to the
snap
f. A replaced player gets off the field into the team box, then comes back on to
replace a different player
prior to the snap

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. A is lined up for a Try kick. The kick is blocked and lands back on the 20
   YL. The U blows his whistle to kill the play and both the U and BJ move 2 YDS
straight ahead and signal no score from the EZ.

9. A22 is tackled short of the LTG between the field numbers and the SL. The LJ
   winds the GC 2x to properly signal the GCO to keep the GC running. As the R
approaches the DB spot to help, he/she mirrors the LJ’s GC wind signal to the PB
as well.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. Team A is tackled in their own EZ for a safety in a JV game which the
    coaches agreed no KO’s prior to the start. The Crew got together and placed
the ball at the 50 YL and not 25 YDS from K’s free kick line.
