---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Quiz 6"
date:   2021-09-18
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2021/2021-quiz-6.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. K 4 th /6 on A’s 28 YL. After the kick, K62 slaps an RT player in the head in
   an attempt to shed the block
to go downfield. During the return, R32 blocks in the back. The R announces both
penalties and
offsets both since they are both live ball fouls.

2. A 3 rd /6 on B’s 46 YL. A22 advances to B’s 40 YL where B52 grabs the
   facemask in attempting the
tackle. A22 stays on his/her feet to B’s 37 YL where A22 fumbles. A64 recovers
the fumble on B’s 43
YL. Where is the enforcement spot for the FM penalty?

3. A 3 rd /6 on B’s 46 YL. A22 advances to B’s 40 YL where B52 grabs the
   facemask in attempting the
tackle. A22 stays on his/her feet to B’s 37 YL where A22 is being gang tackled
so he/her hands the
ball back to A12, who advances to B’s 32 YL. Where is the enforcement spot for
the FM penalty?

4. A 3 rd /12 on A’s 3 YL. A12 throws a pass which is intercepted by B22 at A’s
   12 YL. B22 returns the
interception for a TD but B72 is flagged for holding in A’s end zone during the
return and before the
score. Where is the enforcement spot for the holding penalty?

5. K 4 th /12 on B’s 35 YL. During the punt, which rolled into B’s EZ, R24 is
   flagged for a block-in-the-back
at B’s 25 YL. Where is the enforcement spot for the BIB penalty?

6. B calls a time-out with A on their 12 YL. The HC for B comes on the field
   between the 9-yard marks to
talk with his team with his headset still on. In the team huddle and using the
headset the HC talks
with the defensive coordinator. The U approaches the HC and tells the coach that
in the huddle he is
not allowed to use a headset while on the field during the TO.

7. Early in the 1Q the U sends B82 out of the game for the pants not covering
   the knees. Later in the 3Q
the R stops the GC to send B82 out of the game for pants not covering the knee.
The U informs the R
about the 1Q withdrawal so the R throws a flag and penalizes B82 with a UNS
foul.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. Team A scored with 1:42 left in the game making it a 2 point differential
   game. The R instructed the
Crew to use onside kick mechanics. The HL/BJ were on the KT 40 YL, the U/LJ were
on the RT 50
YL and the R took a position on the RT 20 YL in the middle of the field since no
RT players were
deeper than the 30 YL.

9. K’s KO goes high and deep to the corner of the field nearest the LJ. The RT
   player caught the kick on
their outside arm while standing on the GL near the pylon. The nose of the ball
penetrated the GL so
the LJ blew the kick dead, signaling TB and running toward the 10 YL #’s at a 45
degree angle.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. Prior to a JV game the officials asked both HC’s if they wanted to FK, one
    coach did not want to so
they ruled no FK’s. During halftime the HC who was against kicking realized he
may need to onside
kick in the 2 nd half to secure a win. He asked the officials, “if everyone
agrees now can we FK in the 2 nd
half”.

