---
layout: post
title:  "2021 Quiz 4"
date:   2021-09-06
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2021/2021-quiz-4.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. After reaching the LTG, the R signals first down and A is awarded a new
   series. A65 commits a UNS foul before the ball
has been marked the ball RFP. After enforcement it is 1/25 for A.

2. A, 2/5 @ B’s 40 YL. After the snap A12 hands the ball forward to running back
   A32 @ B’s 43 YL. The R throws a flag
for illegal forward handling. The U comes in and tells the R it’s legal as long
as the ball was handed forward in or
behind the NZ.

3. B27 realizes he/she is the 12 th person on the field. A is on B’s 3 YL. B27
   runs backward through B’s EZ and across the
EL in order to avoid a penalty. A snaps the ball and fumbles, B recovers.

4. After K10 free kicks from K’s 40 YL, K10 is looking up at the airborne kick
   when R56 blocks K10 at K’s 43YL. The BJ
sees the block, but no flag is thrown.

5. K, 4/20 @ K’s 35 YL. K10’s punt is straight up and K56 catches the kick @ K’s
   35YL. K56 runs the ball and is tackled at
R’s 44 YL.

6. K, 4/5 @ K’s 30 YL. R67 lines up over the snapper but doesn’t contact the
   snapper after the snap. The U throws a flag
for illegal formation for R67 lining up over the snapper.

7. Team R huddles. A substitute enters the huddle and within 2 seconds the
   huddle breaks. A player runs to his team box.
The opposing team’s HC is yelling “they can’t break the huddle with 12 players,
that’s a penalty”.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. A fight breaks out of the field after a play and players are upright and
   swinging. The U and HL grab players and
separate them.

9. In 4 Person GL mechanics it’s A’s ball @ B’s 9YL. The U has the GL.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. After a heavy rain the officials decide the field is not suitable to play
    due to standing water in the center of the field.
