---
layout: post
title:  "2022 Quiz 6"
date:   2022-09-23
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2022/2022-quiz-6-revised.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. Team K sets up for a PAT. Before the snap all 7 linemen cross their legs behind the lineman beside them. The R throws a flag at the snap for illegal formation on K.

2. During a middle school game, both HC’s tell the officials they do not want to punt. The officials tell the HC’s, if they decide to punt inside the +35YL they are required to treat it either as a TB or mark it off half the distance.

3. During a muddy JV game, the LJ decides to switch the game ball out for a dry ball. The R tells the LJ that he is the only official that can order the game ball changed.

4. A, 3/8 @ A’s 4 YL. A38 fumbles the ball @ A’s 2 YL. B67 intentionally kicks the grounded loose ball into A’s EZ and across the EL. The R throws a flag for illegal kicking. The LJ tells A’s HC he has to accept the penalty and if he does not it is a safety.

5. A, 3/10 @ B’s 40 YL. A10 throws a forward pass; B55 is flagged for roughing the passer. The pass is completed to A80 who runs to B’s 4 YL where he is downed. The officials tell A’s HC they must decline the penalty to keep the yardage, or accept, and enforce from the foul from the PS.

6. Before the snap the BJ counts a 12th player entering the field for B. He waits approximately 20 seconds for the snap to throw his flag for illegal substitution.

7. Varsity Game Only: The GC is stopped for a B player injury. After the injury The R gives the RFP and raises one hand pumping up to signal resetting the PC to 25 seconds.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. During a JV game it’s A, 3/21. The U tells the R he’s going to drop back to 15 yards off the LOS as he anticipates a pass play.

9. The AD tells the Crew he has no one to run the visible PC. He asked the BJ if he would use their remote timer to reset the PC on each play. The BJ agrees.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. During a JV game the HT does not have the proper numbering. The R tells the HC he must tell him who is eligible on each play.