---
layout: post
title:  "2022 Quiz 4"
date:   2022-09-08
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2022/2022-quiz-4.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. Runner A23 is advancing towards B’s GL near the SL. A23 is hit by B52 as he dives toward the EZ from the +3YL. As a result, A23 lands OOB but advanced the ball beyond B’s GL extended while in the air. The covering official signals TD since the ball broke the GL extended.

2. A 2 & 3 B 12YL.With 4 seconds left A12 rolls out to the right for an RPO play, stretching the play as far as possible knowing the half will end. Right before A12 is tackled, he completes a pass to A82 in the EZ. The LJ and R flag A12 for being beyond the LOS when the ball was released. The R administered an Illegal Forward Pass from the spot of the pass, nullified the score, and signaled for an untimed down.

3. Team B is behind in the score with 1:44 left on the GC. A is stopped short of a first down on a 3rd down run deep in their own territory. During the play, A75 is flagged for holding. Team B’s HC wants to decline the penalty to force a punt and have the GC started on the snap. The R signaled to decline the holding penalty and blew the RFP without starting the GC.

4. During a Try Kick, K34’s kick hits the top of the helmet of the right guard K62 who is behind the NZ and the airborne kick continues through the EZ and makes it over the crossbar. The R rules the kick no good since the ball touched a K player.

5. K, 4th and 8 from K’s 10YL. K22’s punt is partially blocked. R32 runs to try to catch the blocked punt in the air at the K 5YL and muffs the punt. The ball then bounces into the EZ where K42 recovers. The R signals a safety.

6. K, 4th and 8 from K’s 10YL. K22’s punt is partially blocked. R32 runs to try to recover the blocked punt which is barely rolling at K’s 5YL and applies a new Force by muffing the ball after trying to scoop it off the ground. The ball then bounces into the EZ where K42 recovers. The R signals a safety.

7. R23 is running down the SL by himself after just returning a punt 85 YDS for an apparent TD, lifts the ball over his head at the +15 YL pumping the ball over his head, and slowing down, shuffles in the EZ backward. The R drops a flag at the + 15 YL then nullifies the score and penalizes R23 for UNS placing the ball at the +30 YL, 1st and 10.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. A, 1st and 10 for A on the +9YL. A32 takes a pitch from the QB and runs a sweep toward the LJ SL. The LJ signals and yells “back” on the pitch then opens the door on the sweep once A32 gets to the hash mark and continues to run outside toward the SL.

9. After a safety, K lines up to FK at their own 20YL. The Crew positions themselves as follows – BJ (KT 20YL), U (KT 30YL), HL/LJ (RT 30YL) and the R on the RT GL.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. Prior to the game, the AD informed the crew that they will be flying a drone over the field during the game. The crew informed the AD that flying a drone during weeks 1 through 10 is up to the school but during the playoffs it is prohibited.