---
layout: post
title:  "2022 Quiz 8"
date:   2022-10-07
author: "Bruce Maurer and Eric Mauk"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Eric Mauk in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2022/2022-quiz-8.pdf).

<!--more-->

# Rules

1. A, 3/9 on B47YL – A34 is carrying the ball when B28 tries to make a tackle from his knees at the B32YL. A34 hurdles the player and continues downfield where he is driven OOB at the B25YL. The officials drop a flag for hurdling and prepare to penalize A34 from the spot of the foul.

2. A, 2/12 B42YL – A17 drops to pass and is chased deep into his backfield. B75 grabs and twists A17’s face mask at the A44YL but does not bring him down. The play continues and A17 is eventually tackled at the A40YL. The officials consider enforcing the 15 yard penalty from the previous spot before determining the correct enforcement spot is the A44YL (spot of the foul).

3. A, 2/7 on A38YL – On a play in which time runs out in the second quarter, B58 commits a personal foul for a late hit out of bounds. The officials determine that the dead ball foul occurred after time had run out and notifies the coaches that the foul will be enforced on the second half kickoff.

4. A, 2/10 A39YL – On a play in which time runs out in the second quarter, B58 commits a personal foul for a late hit out of bounds near the pylon on a play that results in a touchdown. The officials determine that the dead ball foul occurred after time had run out and notifies the coaches that the foul will be enforced on the second half kickoff.

5. K, 4/14 K37 – During a punt, K49 blocks R26 from behind during the kick at the R41YL. R48 returns the punt for a touchdown. The officials inform the coach that his options are to take enforcement on the Try or decline the penalty.

6. A, 3/8 B14YL – Game Clock is running with 25 seconds in the half. A10 goes under center to spike the ball and stop the game clock. He bobbles the snap, which hits the ground and bounces back into his hands. He then spikes the ball. What is the ruling and the game clock status?

7. A lines up to run a scrimmage play late in the half. The offensive coordinator screams for A89 to take off his wrist bands. He comes over near the sideline to remove them, quickly sets and A snaps the ball, throwing the ball to A89 for a long gain.

# Mechanics

8. Free kick to start a half. The kick is on the home side of the field and the returner threatens to break the return for a score. The BJ anticipates a long return and leaves the 50YL, going downfield 30-35 yards ahead of the runner, who is tackled near the sideline at the A40YL, with action continuing into the bench area.

9. A, 3/G on B7YL – A11 drops to pass and is tackled on B’s 15YL. The CJ comes in to spot the ball while the R and the U look for dead ball action off the ball.

# Regulations

10. A, 4/10 on A48YL, Team A is down 7 with three seconds left. Their fourth down pass is incomplete and the game ends. As the officials make their way off the field, B6 goes up to his opponents cursing and taunting them before making a vulgar gesture towards them