---
layout: post
title:  "2022 Quiz 7"
date:   2022-10-02
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2022/2022-quiz-7.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. K 4th/6 on K’s 28 YL. K22’s punt is caught by R32 and returned 8 YDS where R32 is tackled. During the kick, K is flagged for illegal formation, 5 players in the backfield. R’s HC chose to move K back 5 YDS from the previous spot and re-kick. What is the status of the GC? Does it start on the RFP whistle or the snap?

2. K 4th/4 on K’s 28 YL. K22’s punt is caught by R32 and returned 8 YDS where R32 is tackled. During the kick R55 is flagged for running into the kicker. RT’s foul results in a 1st down for K. What is the status of the GC? Does it start on the RFP whistle or the snap?

3. B32 intercepts A12’s pass at his own 3 YL and his momentum carries him into the EZ. While trying to run the ball out of the EZ, B45 is called for holding in the EZ. What is the result of the play?

4. A 3rd/goal on B’s 7 YL. A32 runs the ball off tackle for a TD. During the run B51 is flagged for a 15 YD facemask foul. What are the options which should be given to A?

5. A12 throws a forward pass to A42 toward the SL and behind the LOS. A42 then throws a 20 YD pass downfield to A82 and B43 is flagged for DPI by the BJ. After a brief Crew discussion, the R signals that the illegal forward pass foul and DPI foul offset and the down is to be replayed.

6. A 3rd/8 on A’s 35 YL. A12’s pass is intercepted by B32 at B’s 45 YL. B32 returns the interception up field where he is hit, then fumbles, and A45 recovers the fumble. As a result,
it is A, 1st/10. What is the status of the GC? What is the status of the PC?

7. K45 is running down field to cover their punt and runs under the kick where the kick hits K45 in the back. R22 was in position to try to field the punt. The BJ did not flag K45 telling the RT’s HC that R22 would not be able to catch the kick since it hit K45 in the back.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. A22 runs a sweep around the end, running OOB 12 YDS up field and into the opponent’s bench. The BJ hustled over to the SL, found A22, and walked him back to the playing field and A’s side of the new LOS. At halftime the R suggested to the BJ that he/she should stay at least 5 YDS from the SL and DB officiate noting the LOS officials can help those players back to the field

9. A 3rd/4 from the +8 YL. A34 runs a sweep wide near the SL, the LJ moves to the +4 YL immediately after the snap and stops. As the play continues that way the LJ holds the +4 YL but continues to just back up.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. Prior to a JH/MS game the officials asked both HC’s if they wanted to punt, one coach did not want to and the other coach did. So as a result, the officials allowed one team to punt and the other team to move the ball 35 yards on a 4th down.