---
layout: post
title:  "2023 Quiz 7"
date:   2023-09-29
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2023/2023%20Quiz%20Week%207.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. As the officials are walking onto the field for pregame with the HC’s, the U
   notices many players with
their knees showing. He asks the VT HC to please have them pulled down. One
player starts to roll
his down and the U notices he is not wearing knee pads. He addresses this with
the HC. The HC
speaks to his player and finds out he left them at their school along with 7
other starters. The crew
discusses this and allows it just for this one game.

2. The HT has been called for 8 holding calls during the 1st half. He explains
   to the R that his staff
teaches the players as long as their hands are inside the frame, they can
legally grasp the jersey. He
states this was covered in a football coaching clinic as being legal.

3. Team A comes to the LOS. A 80 is the snapper and is on the end of his
   offensive line. There are 5
players to his left numbered 50-79. At the snap A80 goes downfield and catches a
forward pass.

4 A, 2/10 @ B’s 20 YL with 1:43 remaining in the 2Q. A 34 runs OOB to stop the
GC. After he is OOB
he is hit by B54. He is penalized for a DB personal foul- late hit. The LJ asks
his A’s HC if he wants
the GC to start on the RFP.

5. A, 4/6 @ B’s 10 YL. A12 throws a forward pass to A80 @ B’s 2 YL. While trying
   the catch the pass
A80 is hit, and the ball goes into the air. A83 bats the ball forward into B’s
EZ where A81 catches the
ball in B’s EZ, and the BJ signals a TD for A.

6. With 4th & G from B’s 1 YL: (a) runner A1 is pushed at the LOS from behind by
   A2 in an effort by A2
to get A1 into the EZ; A1 scores a TD; or (b) without contacting A1, A2 & A3
push the pile forward
into the EZ; A1 scores a TD.

7. A 34 is injured and the GC is stopped to extend care by the trainer. A34
   leaves the field. A’s HC calls a
TO. He asks the LJ if he can send A34 back in since he called a TO (buying him
back in with a TO).
The LJ says “sure coach”.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. During a measurement, the BJ faces the VT SL while holding the ball, blocking
   the PB from seeing
the measurement.

9. During the pregame conference with the HT HC, he informs the officials his
   team will always use an onside
kickoff The R tells the HL and LJ no matter what they must start the first KO on
the GL.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. At the end of the HT all officials are on the field when the GC goes to
    0:00. The R throws a flag for
delay of game on the VT as they are not on the field.
