---
layout: post
title:  "2023 Quiz 2"
date:   2023-08-19
author: "Bruce Maurer and Eric Mauk"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Eric Mauk in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2023/2023%20Quiz%202.pdf).

<!--more-->

# Rules

1. A4 kicks a successful field goal attempt as the clock expires for the second
   quarter. B78 is called for illegal contact on the snapper. A wants to accept
the result of the play and penalize at the succeeding spot. The R informs both
teams that the enforcement will take place on the free kick to open the second
half.

2. 2/6 B20 YL – B68 is attempting to enter the field of play as a substitute
   player. He/she has not yet crossed the LOS and is in A’s backfield at the
snap. The LJ sounds his/her whistle and signals a DBF for encroachment on B68.

3. 3/9 on B26YL – R16 throws a legal forward pass that is intercepted by B29 and
   returned for a touchdown. Prior to the pass, A56 and A63 are called for a
chop block. The crew rules that the touchdown stands and that the A penalty
could be enforced on the KO or the Try.

4. 1/10 A 38YL – A35 starts in motion five yards behind the LOS, moving
   laterally toward the snapper. The ball is snapped on the left hash. A35
catches the snap on the run and rolls out to throw a pass. Under duress and
failing to find a receiver, A35 throws the ball from the right hash marks OOB at
the A43YL. The officials rule intentional grounding.

5. 3/10 A10YL - A14 throws a backward pass to A87. A87 muffs the pass into the
   air, and in trying to catch the ball, B29 hits the ball forcing it into the
EZ, where it is ruled dead after being recovered by A14. The officials rule a
safety and 2 points for B.

6. 3/7 A37 YL – A27 runs to the A45 where he/she fumbles the ball. As B58
   approaches, A27 reaches for the ball and in doing so, accidentally contacts
the ball with his foot, forcing it out of bounds at the A43. The covering
official throws a flag for illegal kicking and penalizes from the OOB spot.

7. 3/10 A 10YL - A14 throws a backward pass to A87. A87 muffs the pass into the
   air, and in trying to catch the ball, B29 muffs the ball forcing it into the
EZ, where it is ruled dead after being recovered by A14. The officials rule a
safety and 2 points for B.

# Mechanics

8. 3/5 A 37YL. Ball is spotted at the left upright. A runs a toss sweep to its
   right. The pulling guard is at the A34 YL when he is flagged for holding. The
runner is down at the A39 in the side zone to the right. The crew goes back to
the LOS as per the new rule and marches off 10 yards from the right hash after
bringing the ball in from the side zone.

9. HC requests a conference to review a rule application. The crew feels it was
   an easy call and they feel it was correctly applied 100%. The R informs the
HC that the decision was correct and denies the request.

# Regulations

10. Prior to the start of the game, both teams come out to enter the field.
    Neither team wants to be the first team on the field and refuse to come out
as 30 seconds remain on the pre-game clock.
