---
layout: post
title:  "2023 Quiz 1"
date:   2023-08-18
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2023/2023-quiz-1.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. 1st and 10 from A’s 32YL, QB A12 throws a pass downfield to A88 after taking
   a snap in the shotgun formation. During the down, RB A42 blocks B51 below the waist 4 yds behind the
LOS. The crew enforced the penalty from the spot of the foul making it 1 st and 24 from the 18YL.

2. 1st and 10 from A’s 3YL, QB A12 throws a pass downfield to A88 after taking
   a snap in the shotgun formation in the EZ. During the down RB A42 blocks B51 below the waist 4 yds
behind the LOS and in the EZ. The crew enforced the penalty from the previous spot making it 1 st and
11 from B’s 1YL.

3. 2nd and 6 from B’s 31YL. QB A12 starts to scramble from the shotgun
   formation and runs for a 12 yd gain. During the run, RB A42 is flagged for holding 5 yards behind the LOS. The
crew enforced the penalty from the previous spot making it 2nd and 16 from B’s 41YL.

4. 2nd and 16 from B’s 31YL. QB A12 starts to scramble from the shotgun
   formation and is tackled by B67 5 yds behind the LOS. During the tackle B67 is flagged for a PF face mask foul.
The crew enforced the penalty from the spot of the foul making it 2nd and 6 from B’s 21 YL.

5. 2nd and 13 from A’s 14YL. QB A12 pitches the ball backward to RB A42. A42
   sweeps right looking downfield to throw a halfback pass to A88. B63 is about to tackle A42 6 YDS
behind the LOS (A 8) so A42 throws the ball OOB 8 YDS downfield with no eligible receiver in the area.
The R flags A42 for intentional grounding, giving A the ball 3rd and 23 from A’s 4YL.

6. 3rd and 6 from A’s 34YL. QB A12 pitches the ball backward to RB A22 who
   sweeps right gaining 12 yds. During the run WR A87 is flagged for holding at A’s 40 YL. The crew enforced the
penalty from the 40 YL making it 3rd and 10 from A’s 30 YL.

7. 3rd and 6 from A’s 34YL. QB A12 pitches the ball backward to RB A22 who
   sweeps right gaining 8 yds. During the run WR A87 is flagged for holding at A’s 44 YL. The crew enforced the
penalty from the A 42 YL making it 3rd and 10 from A’s 32 YL.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. 3rd down and 3 from B’s 6YL. At the snap, both the HL and LJ hustled to the
   GL as they were in a GLM situation. A32 was tackled in the middle of the field right at the 3 YL. Both
had to work their way back for a spot and charged the field ½ yard apart from one another creating an
appearance of uncertainty in a critical situation.

9. With 11 seconds left in the first half the HC for A told the officials that
   they were taking a knee. So as a result, the officials inform Team B they are taking a knee and everyone should
demonstrate good sportsmanship.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. During a Saturday morning JV game, one team wanted to kick-off after they
    scored but the other team did not have a kicker and said they did not want to kick-off. So as a result,
the crew allowed the one team to kick-off but placed the ball on the 35 YL for the other team.
