---
layout: post
title:  "2023 Quiz 9"
date:   2023-10-10
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2023/2023%20Quiz%20Week%209.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. The officials came onto the field for week 7. They notice a VT player wearing
   number 00. They tell the VT HC this number is illegal, and he must change his
shirt if he plans to play.

2. A32 is the ball carrier. He has long hair hanging 12” out of his helmet.
   During a run play, B71 grasps his hair and takes him down.

3. A43 is wearing a thermal spandex “hoodie” under his jersey with the hood
   hanging out. A43 intercepts a pass. During the return B81 reaches and grabs
his hoodie and pulls him down to the ground by it.

4. A, 1/10 @ B’s 5 YL 4Q. As time expires in the 4Q, QB A12 is under pressure.
   He throws the ball forward and A56 catches the forward pass at B’s 7 YL and
advances across the GL for a TD. The U throws a flag for illegal touching by
A56. The R and LJ come in and tell the U the pass was not caught beyond the NZ &
therefore, it’s not a foul. The R signals the TD is good and A wins the game by
2 points.

5. K’s field goal attempt is short and hits the ground @ R’s 10 Yl. The ball
   bounces to R’s 2 YL. No RT player is near the ball. K81 picks up the ball and
runs it into R’s EZ. The BJ signals TD. 

6. During a Try B is flagged for DPI. The Try is good. The LJ tells A’s HC his
   only choice is to decline the penalty &, if he accepts the penalty, they will
have to replay the down.

7. K, 4/10 @ K’s 45 YL. K’s punt is rolling at R’s 3 YL.  At the 3 YL, K80
   attempts to bat the ball backward to keep it out of the R’s EZ. R88 picks up
the ball and runs it to R’s 30 YL where R88 is hit and fumbles the ball. K56
recovers the fkumble. The R signals 1/10 for K @ R’s 30 YL.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. Great story and lesson. Before a KO Dan, the BJ, always asks the kicker if
   they’re onside kicking or kicking away. The BJ asks this question in a
crucial part of the game. The BJ goes back to the PB side when he raises his
hand to tell the R he is ready, and he gives the Crew the onside kick “special
signal”. The VT calls a TO before the kick. The VT then recovers the kick. After
the season one of the coaches of the VT, who is a former official, tells a Crew
member “you guys really need to ensure when you signal an onside kick to your
Crew, you don’t make it so obvious. We caught it and ensured we were prepared”.

9. To start the game the HL and LJ are set up on the - 10 YL on the first KO of
   the game.

# OHSAA Regulations

10. Both teams head for the same exit of the field. The Crew recognizes this and
    tells the HT HC to hold his team back and be courteous to their visitors.
