---
layout: post
title:  "2023 Quiz 8"
date:   2023-10-05
author: "Bruce Maurer and Eric Mauk"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Eric Mauk in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2023/2023%20Quiz%20Week%208%20-%20updated.pdf).

<!--more-->

# Rules

1. 4/9 K34YL - K punts on fourth down. R29 catches the punt on the R26YL. He
reverses field and R38 has a BIB foul on the R20YL. During the return, K58
commits a live ball, five yard face mask foul and K63 commits a tripping foul.
R29 is downed on the R48YL. What are the options?

2. 4/9 K34YL - K punts on fourth down.  R29 catches the punt on the R26YL. He
   reverses field and R38 has a BIB foul on the R20YL.  During the return, K58
commits a live ball, five yard face mask foul. After the ball becomes dead, K58
taunts R38. R29 is downed on the R48YL.  What are the options?

3. 4/8 on K15 YL – K wants to bring in a ‘kicking ball’ for a field goal
   attempt.

4. 3/3 B39YL, Tie game, final play of Q4. A’s pass into the EZ is incomplete.
   A85 complains loudly and repeatedly makes a gesture of pulling the flag from
the belt, asking for a DPI foul. A85 is assessed a UNS. At the coin toss for OT,
officials indicate that the 15 yard foul will be enforced on the first play of
OT

5. 4/4 R28YL – K is lined up for a field goal. At the snap, R75 jumps over RG
   A65 to attempt to block the kick. A65 has yet to come out of his stance and
still has his hand on the ground. The U throws a flag for hurdling.

6. 1/10 A35YL – Passer A12 scrambles and approaches the line of scrimmage when
   his feet are contacted legally by B72, causing him to stumble. He falls
forward and he throws a forward pass before he contacts the ground. His arm, the
ball and his shoulders are determined to be across the LOS when he throws the
ball. His feet are behind the LOS. The officials rule a legal forward pass.

7. 3/10 B47YL – A12 throws a legal forward pass that is tipped behind the
   neutral zone by B66. The pass continues past the LOS toward A28. B49 contacts
A28 prior to the ball reaching him, the contact is ruled to be defensive pass
interference.

# Mechanics

8. 4/4 on K19YL – K attempts a 36 yard FG. The kick is blocked and is loose. The
   U moves to the goal line while the BJ stays on the end line.

9. 4/14 on K29YL – K attempts a 46 yard FG. The ball is kicked high and short
   and its initial flight shows that it may not make the GL. The U and the BJ
move to the GL to rule on the kick breaking the goal line plane.

# Regulations

10. Middle School Game. A15 is tackled in his own end zone for a safety. The HL
    tells the HC that we will start play at the B45 YL (spotting the ball 25
yards from the free kick spot since there are no kickoffs at that level).
