---
layout: post
title:  "2024 Quiz 3"
date:   2024-09-04
author: "Bruce Maurer and Greg Bartemes"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Greg Bartemes in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2024/2024%20Quiz%20Week%203.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. QB drops back to pass, the defensive pressure forces him to roll right beyond the boundary of the free blocking zone.  To conserve yardage, the QB throws the ball OOB but the pass is clearly thrown on A’s side of the down box.  The R throws a flag for illegal forward pass.  Before reporting the foul, the LJ approached the R and informed him the pass landed OOB but way beyond the down box.  With this information should the R pick up the flag and wave off the penalty?

2. 4th/7 at A’s 33YL.  R51 attempts to leave the field before the snap but does not get off in time.  K23’s punt is fair caught by R24 at R’s 40 YL.  The HL threw a flag at the snap for illegal substitution.  The R felt the penalty met the 5 requirements of a PSK and administered the penalty as a PSK foul.  

3. 1st/10 at A’s 42 YL.  After making a fair catch, A snaps the ball and runs for a 13-yard gain, the LJ throws a flag for illegal formation (5 in the backfield).  After penalty enforcement the R blows the RFP whistle but does not wind the GC as the down which is being replayed had the GC starting on the snap.

4. K80 punts on 4th/6.  R52 blocks K’s punt behind the NZ.  K42 scoops up the blocked punt and advances beyond the LTG.  The R signals first down, blows the RFP whistle and does not wind the GC.

5. 3rd/6 at A’s 36 YL.  A24 runs the ball for a 4 yard gain, is hit and fumbles, B42 scoops up the fumble and advances 4 yards where he is hit and fumbles.  A16 recovers the ball.  So, what is the status of the next down?  1st or 4th down for A?  Status of the PC?  25 or 40?  Status of the GC?  Wind on the RFP or on the snap?

6. During a try kick, K’s kick is blocked by RT at the LOS.  The blocked kick ricochets back to the kicker who catches it in the air.  The kicker takes off running around the right end and scores. The Crew awards a 2-point conversation. 

7. 4th/5 at B’s 9 YL with 3 seconds remaining in a game, B is winning 21-18.  A/K attempts a FG which is good and ties the game but B42 is flagged for roughing the kicker.  The R gives the following options to K’s HC -- remove the points, and accept the penalty and run an untimed down from B’s 4.5 YL for the win or decline the penalty and play OT.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. With 1:55 left in the 2Q.  A is running a hurry up offense.   With the next down being 2nd/8 on B’s 42 YL the U hurried and spotted the ball a ball-length off the actual spot.  The LJ blew his whistle to stop the GC, ran in and corrected the spot.

9. 3rd/8 at B’s 33 YL.  QB A12 rolls right looking for a receiver when B72 tackles A12 from behind just as A12 was getting ready to throw a pass.  The ball goes forward but toward the sideline.  The LJ comes in signaling incomplete pass by blowing the whistle and S10.


# OHSAA Regulations

10.   During the pregame meeting with the game clock operators (GCO), the R instructed the GCO to put 23 minutes on the GC for halftime.  He said that way we can just let it all run through to 0:00 & it will include the warmup as well & keeps me from having to wind you twice & you reset twice.

