---
layout: post
title:  "2024 Quiz 2"
date:   2024-08-29
author: "Bruce Maurer and Jerry Peters"
---

This week’s quiz is prepared by Jerry Peters in association with Beau Rugg
and Dr. Bruce Maurer. [Click here to view a PDF of the quiz along with the
answers](https://storage.googleapis.com/ohsaa-websites/quizzes/2024/2024%20Quiz%20Week%202.pdf).

<!--more-->

# NFHS Rules

1. Very windy night. K’s FK is kicked from K’s 40 YL and is high and short. The airborne FK crosses the 50 YL and while airborne blows backward and falls on the ground at K’s 48 YL where K82 recovers the FK. The BJ signals 1/10 for K @ K’s 48 YL.

2. K1 FK’s the ball at K’s 40 YL. The FK is grounded at R’s 20 YL. R80 muffs the grounded kick and then K muffs the ball OOB at R’s 23 YL. The LJ signals 1/10 for R @ R’s 23 YL. 

3. K10 kicks the ball pop-up style. The BJ throws his flag but does not sound his whistle. The play continues and after the play the R announces that the foul is enforced 5 yards from the succeeding spot. 

4. Potential on-side kick formation. All 11 K players are lined up between K’s 40 YL and K’s 35 YL. No player is more than 5 yds from K’s FK line. K10 starts toward the ball and then suddenly K11 kicks the ball. There are 4 players on each side of the ball when kicked.  The ball rolls 11 yds where K10 recovers the kick. The BJ throws a flag since K10 wasn’t the player that kicked the ball. 

5. K lines up for a KO. The R sounds the RFP. K’s HC realizes he only has 10 players on the field and sends in K89. He enters the field and then runs around the back of his team at K’s 32 YL. The BJ throws a flag for FK Infraction.

6. K only has 10 players on the field. At the FK they have 5 players on one side of the kicker and 4 players on the other side of the kicker.

7. During K’s FK K is flagged for a low block and the RT is flagged for holding. Both fouls occur before the RT catches the KO.  The R signals that the fouls will offset and the ball will be re-kicked.

# OHSAA Mechanics

8. Before a KO the BJ always asks the kicker if they’re onside kicking or kicking away. The BJ asks this question in a crucial part of the game. The BJ goes back to the PB side where he raises his hand to tell the R he is ready, and he gives the crew the onside kick “special signal”. The VT calls a TO before the kick. The VT then recovers the kick. After the season one of the coaches of the VT who is a former official tells a crew member “you guys really need to ensure when you signal an onside kick to your crew you don’t make it so obvious. We caught it and ensured we were prepared”.  

9. To start the game the HL and LJ have been set up on the 10 YL on the first KO of the game. In one game they were set up on the 20 YL for the first KO. The HL and LJ need to be on the GL for the first KO for each team. Then if short move up after the first KO. 

# OHSAA Regulations

10.   The JV game is started. The HT elects to receive. After the first score the VT HC sends his players out to start on offense. The HL tells the VT HC he must kickoff since the other team kicked off. The VT HC tells the HL he does not have a kicker and they do not kickoff.

