---
layout: post
title:  "Questions of the Week - Week 3"
date:   2016-09-12
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

1. Quick question on OT. I know we bring the captains out for the first overtime
   and only flip once. Do we bring the captains out for each subsequent OT or
just obtain choices and relay that information to the other sideline?

*I would prefer you bring the captains out. It is good communication for the
fans.*

2. KOM: On a TB the R signals, the wings come in to the numbers using their
   whistles. Do they also signal TB, kill the clock or give no signal?

*KOM: The R and Wings signal TB. No need to stop the game clock since the TB
signal kills the GC. Do you know the 4 signals that automatically stop the GC?*

3. When the wing gets to R&R 2 then QB threatens the LOS then crosses the LOS
   becoming a runner, I've been instructing officials to keep a distance by
continuing down field then come back and spot as needed or to continue down
field until speed of the runner passes us by. Most wings want to try and give up
the ground down field to get behind the runner.

*PM: The "most wings" are correct. They need to move into the Restricted Area and
let the runner past them and then follow him. Why? The Wing is safer from a
personal safety standpoint and they can then officiate the action ahead of the
runner.*

4. During the pregame meeting with the head coach and officiating crew in each
   game, I asked if the players were properly equipped and the coaches each said
that they were. In scanning the players warming up, the crew noticed some
players that had exposed shoulder pads. This was pointed out to the head coach
at the time and each was told that the pads need to be covered. The response of
each coach was the same. They said that they were trying to comply with the rule
and would do their best, but the cut of the unaltered jerseys made it extremely
difficult for them to keep the shoulder pads completely covered. During the
game, we repeatedly asked players to cover their pads. When they did, the pads
would come uncovered again as soon as they went into their stance or
participated in the play. My question is this. As I understand it, when this
occurs the officials are supposed to inform the coach and play the game. If the
situation continues during the game, we are supposed to inform you. What exactly
do you suggest that we do or say on the field during the game? I have suggested
bringing along extra jerseys for the players to change into or wearing t-shirts
under the jersey that would cover the pads, but that seems inadequate at game
time.

*The teams need to do what it takes to cover the shoulder pads. They know the
rule and players cannot play while pads are uncovered. It sounds as if you
handled the situation well.*

5. A team's jerseys have camouflage numbers, which I believe is illegal. I
   believe Rule 1-5-c states that numbers have to be a continuous color
contrasting the jersey color or the same solid color as the jersey with a
border.

*I believe the numbers are legal as long as they contrast because 1-5-1c
indicates continuous color(s) which would be more than one color.*
