---
layout: post
title:  "Questions of the Week - Week 5"
date:   2016-09-24
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

1. During a play in which the quarterback (wearing a prosthetic device) became
   the ball carrier, his device became unattached thus rendering him unable to
avoid severe contact and placing him into a precarious situation.

*Currently the NFHS nor OHSAA have any rule satisfying the need for additional
protections to insure the safety of this extremely vulnerable player. It was our
agreement that a whistle and stoppage of play, similar to the ball carrier’s
helmet rule, would be an appropriate solution.

I checked with the NFHS Editor of the Football Rules and he agrees that the
whistle should be blown and this treated the same as the helmet rule.*

2. On a scrimmage kick for a field goal that breaks the plane of the goal line
   but does not score, are the officials to give the no score signal followed by
the touchback signal (S10-7) or just the touchback signal (S7)?

*No score then TB Signal.*

3. Third quarter, point differential rule in effect. Time expires during the
   play and: (a) A commits a block in the back, or (b) B is called for a
facemask foul, or (c) there are offsetting fouls. I can't find this addressed in
the play situations under the point differential rule in the Gold Book. Since
time expired during the play I believe that in (a) and (b) the period is
extended if the foul is accepted. In (c) the period would be extended since you
have offsetting fouls. If A's foul would have been an illegal forward pass in
(a) or in (c) the period would not be extended by rule. Had the clock expired
while the officials were discussing the foul(s) the period would not be extended
since time did not expire during the down.

*Whether the point differential is in effect or not, if time expires during the
down and we have a foul that extends, we extend. If the fould does not extend,
we don't.*

4. When we have a running clock in the second half due to a 30 point
   differential, can we/should we turn off the play clock when it is used on the
field?

*No, keep it running. The only thing that changes is the GC and the timing Rules.*

5. Last Friday we had a running clock in the 4th quarter. The team that was
   ahead was called for a delay of game. My thought was with a running clock
could you ever have a situation where you would stop the clock from running? We
stopped it to penalize A and then wound it on the ready. What if A delays again
?

*See GB, P.34, # 10. When the first DOG is called the GC continues to run. If
they delay again then invoke # 10. This happened once several years ago where
the HC told the Crew with several minutes left that he was not going to snap the
ball again.*

6. A first and 10 at B 25. A1 throws a pass into the end zone where B23
   intercept, started to run with the ball, (didn’t come out) and decided to
toss the ball back to B25, who than tossed the ball over the end line.

*It is a TB as the player threw a backward pass and rule 7-4-1 says a player may
make a backward pass during any down . Rule 7-4-4 states that "If a fumble or a
backward pass is OOB behind a GL the ball belongs to the team defending that GL
and the result is either a TB or a safety." The force which put the ball into
the EZ was the pass by A. Unless B commits a foul in the EZ, you have a TB. Rule
8-5-3d states that it's a TB when: "A forward pass is intercepted in B's EZ and
becomes dead there in B's possession." That's what happened. If the runner had
run out of the back of the EZ or out of the EZ across the SL you would have the
same thing.*

7. During a Varsity game, a coach asked for explanation of a penalty. It was
   during the time-out after an extra point so I went over towards the sideline
to discuss the penalty. During the conference, he stated that everything we say
is being recorded. At that point, I noticed that an Assistant coach was standing
next to us with phone recording audio. A few seconds later, the Assistant stated
that he was video recording our conference. Are coaches allowed to audio or
video record an officials conference? Another general question, is recording
devices allowed on the field during timeouts?

*You have the right to respectfully refuse to be taped in this situation. I would
not allow it unless I was taping also. See Rule1, Section 6 for communication
devices.*
