---
layout: post
title:  "Questions of the Week - Week 10"
date:   2016-10-28
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

1. Late in the 2nd qtr and team A is out of timeouts. The QB runs the ball and
   is tackled. As the players unpile, the QB rises and takes off his helmet and
indicates to the R that the one of the snaps on his chinstrap has become
defective and will not stay snapped. The R clearly sees that the chinstrap will
not stay snapped so the R stops the clock for an officials timeout due to faulty
equipment. The QB tries to fiddle with the snap but has no success. The QB then
runs to the team box where a team assistant throws him a new chinstrap. The QB
returns to the huddle and is ready to go within the allotted 25 seconds for
equipment repair as stated in Rule 3-5-6. No team attendants enter the field to
assist the QB. In this situation (Team A has no timeouts), the rule states that
if repair of faulty equipment requires the assistance of a team attendant, the
player must be replaced for one down. The split interpretation in our
association, as well as the playoff crew, boils down to whether the QB going to
the team box momentarily constitutes “assistance from a team attendant”. Or, is
the intent of the rule means it should only be applied if a team attendant
enters the field to assist the player. In other words, we all agreed that if a
team attendant enters the field to assist the QB, then the QB must go out for
one play. However, if the QB goes to the team box, no attendants enter the
field, and the QB fixes the equipment within the allotted 25 seconds, can he
stay in the game?

*I believe the intent of the rule is to repair equipment on the field. I believe
if you are replacing it, the player should have to leave. Someone has to assist
to replace and thus we don't have to decide if they are a "team attendant".*

2. 1st and 10 on 13. The next running play goes to the 2 yard line. You have a
   dead ball unsportsmanlike or personnal foul on the offense.

*A,1 & 10 on the B17. A obtained the LTG legally during the down. RB, 5-1-2a.
Also, CB, 5.1.2B & 5.1.2F.*
