---
layout: post
title:  "Blindside Block with respect to the Free Blocking Zone Questions"
date:   2017-07-28
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

Is a Blindside Block legal inside the FBZ at any time by any player regardless
of where the ball is?

*No. There is no FBZ when the ball leaves the zone.*

Is the statements of inside/outside the FBZ just referring to the area/location
on the field, or do all of the other restrictions of the FBZ apply for a
Blindside Block exception inside the FBZ?

*Yes the restrictions of the existence of the zone (ball in the zone) apply. But
remember, the definition states that the opponent does not see the blocker
approaching. That implies they are coming from a distance (crack back). In close
line play this does not exist.*

If the other FBZ restrictions are in effect – which restrictions are applicable
(only linemen on linemen such as Blocking Below the waist, or Team A lineman
against any Team B player who is the FBZ at the snap such as the block in the
back)?

*Just the exiistence of the zone.*

Does this Blindside Block exception in the FBZ disappear when the ball leaves
the FBZ (when the FBZ disintegrates)?

*It can, but see "c" above.*

Consider the following play situation. Is this a legal or illegal Blindside
Block inside the “FBZ”? 1. QB in shotgun formation 5 yards behind the LOS and
receives the snap. 2. Trap Play with Team A71 (backside lineman – tackle
position) pulling to “trap” B50 (Team B lineman). 3. B50 is concentrating on the
play in the Team A’s backfield and does not see A71 coming. 4. The contact by
A71 is forceful and occurs in the area that had been defined as the FBZ (but the
FBZ has disintegrated when the ball left the FBZ).

*I say LEGAL because this is close line play and the opponent has reasonable
opportunity to see this block coming. I heve sent this play to the Rules
Committee chair, co-chair and editor for confirmation.*
