---
layout: post
title:  "New KO Regulation - Clarification"
date:   2018-07-15
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

Situation - both coaches agree before a JV game to use kick offs. The game
starts and after a few scores one of the coaches sees his kick offs are an issue
(the kicker is now hurt, they can't seem to cover them, they get a few injuries,
etc.) and wishes to stop kicking off. His opponent coach doesn't agree and
argues they agreed to use them prior to the game. Do we stop kicking off or make
the one coach continue to kick off.

Same situation, but both coaches agree not to kick off. This one seems easy, we
don't kick off any more, but we know the coaches in the situation above will
want to use past practices. "The crew last week made us kick off because we
agreed when we started."

Another situation - Both coaches agree to not kick off before the game, then they both change their
minds. Do we allow kick offs after the game has started without them? I think
the regulation is clear enough that the answer is no, but we both know some
group of officials will find themselves in this situation so I'm thinking it's
wise to address it now.

I can also see coaches changing their minds based on the score. If it's a
lopsided, even point differential game, they might want to kick off to waste
some more of the game clock. Or perhaps not kick off because they've now reduced
the differential and want to preserve clock time.

Last consideration, if we have mutual agreement to start, but one coach wants to
stop kicking, can we have one team kick and the other not kick? I would be
opposed to this, but I'm sure it's going to come up.

I'm thinking they can always stop kicking off (even if they start the game with
it), but can never return to kick off once they stop. Plus it only takes one
coach to ask that they stop kicking off, even if they agreed to kick off prior
to the game.

*My thoughts are to keep it simple.  If both HC's agree then we are going to KO
the entire game.  Same if one or both say "no KO's", then no KO's the entire
game.  We do not want to have a case book full of play situations.*
