---
layout: post
title:  "The Penalty Flag's History...Did You Know?"
date:   2004-06-04
author: "Bruce Maurer"
---

This article is a guest post by Jerry Peters, an OHSAA football official. Enjoy!

“Field laundry”, “the yellow rag” or my favorite “a referee’s hanky” these are
all nick-names of the yellow penalty flag each Zebra of the gridiron carries at
least one of for every game. But just where did the penalty flag come from? The
idea for the penalty flag came from Youngstown State football coach Dwight
Beede. It was first used in a game against Oklahoma City University on October
17, 1941. However, official adoption of the use of the flag occurred at the 1948
American Football Coaches rules session. In the NFL, NCAA, Arena, high school
and flag football the penalty flag is yellow. In Canada the penalty flag used by
officials is orange. Until 1965 most penalty flags were white in color, in
college penalty flags were red until the mid-1970’s. Prior to the use of flags
in 1941 for the game at Yougstown State officials normally used only whistles
and horns to signal a penalty had occurred. It wasn’t until September 17, 1948
that NFL officials used flags when the Green Bay Packers played the Boston
Yanks. In today’s game NFL and Arena coaches use red flags to challenge rule
interpretations.

The cloth is weighted with either beans or sand. Prior to 1999 BBs were also
used by some manufacturers to weight the yellow cloth. This was discontinued
after an incident in where a thrown flag hit a player in the eye in an NFL game.
The injury left the player sitting out for three seasons.

So this season when you reach down to throw your flag... remember the flag has a
long history and it all started right here in Ohio in a little town named
Youngstown and it was a coach not an official who first thought of it!

By Jerry Peters
